Q what is your biggest weakness and what are you doing to address it?
I think maybe my greatest weakness is that I trust people too much. I’m too trusting. And when they let me down, if they let me down, I never forgive. I find it very, very hard to forgive people that deceived me. So I don’t know if you would call that a weakness, but my wife said “let up.”
Q Is this a comic book version of a presidential campaign?
No, not a comic book, and it’s not a very nicely asked question the way you say that. Larry Kudlow is an example, who I have a lot of respect for, who loves my tax plan. We’re reducing taxes to 15 percent. We’re bringing corporate taxes down, bringing money back in, corporate inversions. We have $2.5 trillion outside of the United States which we want to bring back in. As far as the wall is concerned, we’re going to build a wall. We’re going to create a border. We’re going to let people in, but they’re going to come in legally. They’re going to come in legally. And it’s something that can be done, and I get questioned about that. They built the great wall of China. That’s 13,000 miles. Here, we actually need 1,000 because we have natural barriers. So we need 1,000. We can do a wall. We’re going to have a big, fat beautiful door right in the middle of the wall. We’re going to have people come in, but they’re coming in legally. And Mexico’s going to pay for the wall because Mexico — I love the Mexican people; I respect the Mexican leaders — but the leaders are much sharper, smarter and more cunning than our leaders.And just to finish, people say, how will you get Mexico to pay? A politician other than the people in the states — I don’t want to — a politician cannot get them to pay. I can. We lose, we have a trade imbalance of $50 billion believe me the world is peanuts by comparison.
Q Did spending your high school years in military school will help you with foreign policy?
I think so, yeah. I mean, I understand the military, I know the military. I think, look: CNN did a poll, and in the poll I blow everyone away on the economy, blow everyone away on leadership and I actually did very well on that poll on the military, too. The economy I’m going to do great at. I’m going to be a job-creating, incredible job-creating president, right? But I think I will be a great president having to do with the military, and also having to do with taking care of our vets.
Q What did you think about pollster Frank Luntz and his recent pro-Trump focus group?
Yeah, I did see it, and I actually saw it on television. He was on television on Fox doing it. He actually said it’s the highest score that he’s ever received in the history of his company, which was quite a statement. So it’s hard to be angry at Frank anymore, right?
Q What did you think when your daughter Ivanka told you she was converting to Judaism?
I thought it was fine. She’s got a fantastic husband, they have a beautiful marriage, and I thought it was absolutely fine. They have a great marriage, a great relationship.
Q Would you consider only serving one term as president? 
I think it depends on where we are. I think that I can do a great job in four years, but it could very well be that to seal everything up and make it just perfect, you’ll take the extra time. I think it would really depend on where I am.The country’s in very bad shape. The infrastructure of the country is rotted out and in decay. The military — I just saw where General Odierno said today that we’re less ready with the army than any time in our country’s history. That’s an amazing statement. I don’t know if you saw that statement, but he made it very recently. He was the head. He said our army is less ready now than it ever has been in its history. … The point is there’s a lot to be done. I think I can do much of it, if not all of it, in four years, but I would never want to close the option of going for an additional four years.
Q How do you feel about Matt Drudge?
I have a great feeling for him. I think he’s done an amazing job and he is a man who, he really does love the country, but he puts freedom of the press, in a sense, above everything else. He really does an amazing job. Yeah, I have a great respect for him. … If he’s in a room, he may be the most important person in the room, but he doesn’t care if anyone knows it. He’s very self-effacing, in other words.
Q Would you consider any reporter you've dealt with to be your White House press secretary?
I’m very mixed on the political press. I’m very, very mixed on the political press, but there are people that I would certainly consider. I think there’s some terrific people that I’ve met in the press, and I’ve met some people that are not honest and not honorable.
Q Do you credit your father's wealth with helping you become a billionair?
He didn’t have hundreds of millions of dollars. What my father gave me more than anything else is great tutoring and a great brain, frankly. You know, my father’s brother was a top person at MIT, went to MIT, graduated from MIT, was a teacher at MIT, a professor at MIT, a great engineer. I mean, you know, I have very good genes. No, I have built a great company… I will say this, according to everybody I guess, by far I am the most successful person to ever run for office.
Where do you go on vacation?
I only go to my places. I go to Turnberry in Scotland, I go to Aberdeen in Scotland. I go to Doonbeg, which I own, in Ireland. I go to Doral, Trump National Doral, in Miami, one of the great resorts of the world. As you know, in Scotland, if you look at Turnberry — you know, I own Turnberry in Scotland. No partners, a thousand acres, on the ocean. I have very little debt and I have very few partners. But I only like to go to places that I own, because, you know, I don’t have enough time. What do I want to sit in somebody else’s resort for?
Q What are your favorite movies?
I like a lot of movies. I love Citizen Kane. I love Gone With the Wind. I love many of them, I mean so many movies. I like a lot of the old classics best. I don’t see too many today, they’re too computerized.
Q Would you be willing to use the debt limit and risk the possibility of the country going into default to get more spending cuts?
I would use the debt limit. I don't want to say -- I want to be unpredictable, because, you know, we need unpredictability. Everything is so predictable with our country. But I would be very, very strong on the debt limit. And I would be asking for a very big pound of flesh if I were the Republicans. And the problem with the Republicans, they have two sides. The smaller side is very strong and the other side is always agreeing and, you know, you can't do that.
Q Would you be willing to shut down the government in order to defund Planned Parenthood or to push some other key policy goal?
I do not want to say that because I want to show unpredictability. You have to. You can't just go around and say that. But Planned Parenthood should absolutely be defunded. I mean if you look at what's going on with that, it's terrible. And many other things should be defunded and many things should be cut.
Q You said in August that you're, quote, "fine" with affirmative action. What about conservatives who say the time for that kind of preferential treatment has come and gone.
I'm fine with it, we have it, it's there. But it's coming to a time when maybe we don't need it. That would be a wonderful thing. I don't think we need it so much anymore. You know, it has served its place, it has served its time. Some people have loved it and some people don't like it at all. But I think there will be a time when you don't need it.
Q You are one of the few candidates who has come out with a detailed tax plan. Let's drill down into that. You would cut the seven tax brackets to four. Zero, 10%, 20%, 25. You'd cut the corporate tax rate from 35% to 15. You would limit deductions for higher-income earners. And you would eliminate "carried interest" preferential tax treatment for hedge funders. What's the thinking?
Well the thinking is we have the highest tax rate in the world. In the entire world, we have the highest tax rate. There's gridlock in Washington because there's no leadership. So what I'm doing is a large tax cut especially for the middle class and they're gonna- we're going to have a dynamic country. We're going to have dynamic economics. And it's going to be something really special. And people are going back to work.
Q But how about the idea that you're going to blow a hole in the deficit and that the top 1% going to make out a lot better than the middle class.
Well they're going to make out better if the economy gets better. The economy is very sick. We're losing our jobs to China to Japan to every country. We're making horrible trade deals. We are losing jobs in this country. Hundreds and hundreds of thousands of jobs are being lost. And part of the reason is our taxes are so high in this country. I'm also cutting, you know they don't talk about that. And I'm doing that in a different, little policy segment that we're going to be announcing-
Q Would you cut services? Would you cut departments?
I'm not cutting services. But I'm cutting spending. But I may cut Department of Education. I believe common core is a very bad thing. I believe that we should be lo -- you know, educating our children from Iowa, from New Hampshire, from South Carolina, from California, from New York. I think that it should be local education. If you look at a Jeb Bush and some of these others, they want them to be educated by -- by Washington, DC bureaucrats. So Department of Education is one. Environmental protection, what they do is a disgrace. Every week they come out with new regulations. They're making it impossible...
Q Who's going to protect the environment?
we'll be fine with the environment. We can leave a little bit, but you can't destroy businesses.
Q Do you support taking private property for private use?
If somebody has a property in the middle of a 7,000 job factory, as an example, that's going to move into the town - but they need this one corner of this property, and it's going to provide 7,000 jobs in a community that's dying, of which we have many in this country, OK? I am for that. That's a big economic development. But remember this: all of these people that we're talking about, they're friends of mine. They all love the Keystone Pipeline, right? The Keystone Pipeline is all eminent domain. They're building that pipeline without eminent domain, you wouldn't be able to build.
Q You had your hotel, and you wanted to build a parking lot where some woman had her house why do you need to take her house, for a parking lot?
I tell you what. Because I have a hotel, and in order to expand the hotel and add 2,000 rooms, I would have had to take her thing. Now, the 2,000 rooms would have provided about 2,500 jobs, Ultimately offered a lot of money, she didn't take it, I didn't build the job. I didn't do it. Saved me a lot of money because Atlantic City, you know, I had the good sense to leave 7 years ago. I got very lucky. Yeah, I think that would have been a good eminent domain because you would have provided thousands of jobs. And this is a woman who couldn't have cared less about her house. All she wanted was money.
Q do you blame George W. Bush for 9/11?
Look, look, Jeb said we were safe with my brother. We were safe. Well, the World Trade Center just fell down! Now, am I trying to blame him? I'm not blaming anybody. But the World Trade Center came down. So when he said, we were safe, that's not safe. We lost 3,000 people, it was one of the greatest - probably the greatest catastrophe ever in this country if you think about it, right?
Q What would you have done differently on 9/11?
Well, I would have been much different, I must tell you. Somebody said, well, it wouldn't have been any different. Well, it would have been. I am extremely, extremely tough on illegal immigration. I'm extremely tough on people coming into this country. I believe that if I were running things, I doubt those families would have - I doubt that those people would have been in the country. So there's a good chance that those people would not have been in our country. With that being said, I'm not blaming George Bush. But I don't want Jeb Bush to say my brother kept us safe becauseSeptember 11 was one of the worst days in the history of this country.
Q You are still leading. Why do you think your numbers have gone down a bit?
I don't think they've gone down. I think they've gone up. We just had a Reuters poll come out. I'm at 33. We just had, as you know, Nevada come out. I'm 20 points ahead of second place. We had one come out in South Carolina where I'm 18 or 20 points ahead. The polls have been now better than they've ever been. And what you're doing is a little bit obsolete information. But that's OK. Look, I'm leading in everything.
Q Which brings me to the question of temperament, which I think you would agree is important -- in a president. First of all, what's the deal with the tweets? Why are you sitting there at night watching TV and tweeting out?
Well, I think it's fine. It's a great way of getting my word out. I love Twitter and tweeting, and I have - between that and Facebook, I have like 10 million followers. It's a great way. Now if you do something bad to me, I can tweet about Chris. And the world will be seeing it.
Q But-- but does Mrs. Trump ever say, 'Donald, turn off the TV? Come to bed.'?
Oh, I don't do that much. And usually it's not too late. No, I just think it's an amazing way - you know, we're in a modern age now. We have to get with it. Twitter and Facebook and all of this stuff is, to me, I mean it's, for some reason - I'm probably not the youngest person using it. But for some reason, it works very well. I'm setting records. In fact, for the debate, you know - I'm talking about the Democrat debate - and they use Democratic. It's really Democrat. You know that, OK? They called that wrong. It's really the Democrat. But the Democrat debate, I picked up more followers by many times than anybody else. And there were those that said I won the debate because I picked up all the followers. But no, I think it's a great, modern way of getting the word out.
Q Hillary Clinton testifies before the House Benghazi Committee this week. What is it you would like to find out about both her role in Benghazi and about her e-mails?
I think things will be revealed. Personally, I think that Hillary was one of the worst, if not the worst, I mean if you look at the record, secretary of States ever, ever in this country. I think that's the bigger problem that she's got. I don't think Benghazi is as big a problem for her as her past and what's happened. The world blew up around her. You look at the world, it just blew up around her. Everything went bad, whether it's Libya, whether it's her tenure in Iraq. And there's been plenty of bad tenures having to do with Iraq because of the length. Things that happened during her tenure were a disaster. I think she's probably going to go down as the worst secretary of State in the history of this country. And I think that will be -- what I will tell you, that will be what I will be campaigning on. Now, what's going to happen with Benghazi? It will be very interesting. I look forward to it.
Q If you end up as the Republican nominee and Hillary Clinton is the Democratic nominee, how would you take her on?
I'd take her on tough. I'd just take her on, on her record. I'd discuss her record. I think her record is abysmal. And I would take her on, on her record.