Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you very much, President Van Zant, and thanks to everyone at the New School for welcoming us today. I'm delighted to be back.

You know, over the past few months, I have had the opportunity to listen to Americans' concerns about an economy that still isn't delivering for them. It's not delivering the way that it should. It still seems, to most Americans that I have spoken with, that it is stacked for those at the top.

But I've also heard about the hopes that people have for their future - going to college without drowning in debt; starting that small business they've always dreamed about; getting a job that pays well enough to support a family and provide for a secure retirement.

Previous generations of Americans built the greatest economy and strongest middle class the world has ever known on the promise of a basic bargain: if you work hard and do your part, you should be able to get ahead. And when you get ahead, America gets ahead. But over the past several decades, that bargain has eroded. Our job is to make it strong again.

For 35 years, Republicans have argued that if we give more wealth to those at top by cutting their taxes and letting big corporations write their own rules, it will trickle down, it will trickle down to everyone else. Yet every time they have a chance to try that approach, it explodes the national debt, concentrates wealth even more and does practically nothing to help hard-working Americans.

Twice now in the past 20 years, a Democratic president has had to come in and clean up the mess left behind.


I think the results speak for themselves. Under President Clinton - I like the sound of that - America saw the longest peacetime expansion in our history.


Nearly 23 million jobs, a balanced budget and a surplus for the future, and most importantly, incomes rose across the board, not just for those already at the top. Eight years later, President Obama and the American people's hard work pulled us back from the brink of depression. President Obama saved the auto industry, imposed new rules on Wall Street and provided health care to 16 million Americans.


Now today - today, as the shadow of crisis recedes and longer- term challenges come into focus, I believe we have to build a growth and fairness economy. You can't have one without the other. We can't create enough jobs and new businesses without more growth, and we can't build strong families and support our consumer economy without more fairness. We need both.

Because while America standing again, we are not yet running the way we should. Corporate profits are at near record highs and Americans are working as hard as ever. But paychecks had nearly budged in real terms. Families today are stretched in so many directions, and so are their budgets. Out of pocket costs of health care, child care, hearing for aging parents, are rising a lot faster than wages.

I hear this everywhere I go. A single mom talked about juggling a job and classes at community college while raising three kids. She doesn't expect anything to come easy. But if she got a raise, everything would not be quite so hard.

The grandmother who works around the clock providing child care to other people's kids. She's proud of her work, but the pay is fairly enough to live on, especially with the soaring price of her prescription drugs.

The young entrepreneur whose dream of buying a bowling alley where he worked as a teenager was nearly derailed by his student debt. If he can grow his business, he can pay off his debt and pay his employees, including himself, more, too.

Millions of hardworking Americans tell similar stories. Wages need to rise to keep up with cost, paychecks need to grow. Families who work hard and do their part deserve to get ahead and stay ahead. The defining economic challenge of our time clear. We must raise incomes for hard-working Americans, so they can afford a middle-class life. We must drive steady income growth that lifts up families, and lifts up our country. And that…


And that will be my mission, from the first day I am president to the last. I…


I will get up every day thinking about the families of America, like the family I came from, with a hard-working dad who started a small business and scrimped, and saved, and gave us a good middle- class life. I will be thinking about all the people that I represented in New York and the stories that they told me, and that I worked with them to improve. I will, as your president take on this challenge against the backdrop of major changes in our economy and the global economy that did not start with the Recession and will not end with the recovery.

You know, advances in technology and expanding global trade have created new areas of commercial activity and opened new markets for our exports. Too often they are polarizing our economy, benefiting high skilled workers, but displacing and downgrading blue-collar jobs and other mid-level jobs that used to provide solid incomes for millions of Americans.

Today's marketplace focuses too much on the short-term, like second to second financial trading, and quarterly earnings reports, and too little on long-term investments. Meanwhile, many Americans are making extra money renting out a small room, designing websites, selling products they design themselves at home, or even driving their own car. This on-demand, or so-called gig economy is creating exciting economies and unleashing innovation.

But it is also raising hard questions about work-place protections and what a good job will look like in the future.

So, all of these trends are real and none, none is going away. But they do not determine our destiny. The choices we make as a nation matter. And the choices we make in the years ahead will set the stage for what American life in the middle class and our economy will be like in this century.

As president, I will work with every possible partner to turn the tide to make these currents of change start working for us more than against us, to strengthen, not hollow out, the American middle class. Because I think at our best, that's what Americans do. We are problem solvers, not deniers. We don't hide from change; we harness it.

The measure of our success must be how much incomes rise for hardworking families, not just for successful CEOs and money managers and not some just arbitrary growth targets untethered to people's lives and livelihoods.


I want to see our economy work for the struggling, the striving and the successful. We're not going to find all the answers we need today in the playbooks of the past, we can't go back to the old policies that failed us before, nor can we just replay the successes.

Today is not 1993. It's not 2009. So we need solutions for the big challenges we face now.

So today, I'm proposing an agenda to raise incomes for hardworking Americans, an agenda for strong growth, fair growth and long-term growth.

Let me begin with strong growth. More growth means more jobs and more new businesses. More jobs give people choices about where to work.

And employers have to offer higher wages and better benefits in order to compete with each other to hire new workers and keep the productive ones. That's why economists tell us that getting closer to full employment is crucial for raising incomes.

Small businesses create more than 60 percent of new American jobs on net, so they have to be a top priority. I've said I want to be the small-business president, and I mean it. And throughout this campaign, I'm going to be talking about how we empower entrepreneurs with less red tape, easier access to capital, tax relief and simplification.

I'll also push for broader business tax reform to spur investment in America, closing those loopholes that reward companies for sending jobs and profits overseas.


And I know it's not always how we think about this, but another engine of strong growth should be comprehensive immigration reform.


I want you to hear this. Bringing millions of hardworking people into the formal economy would increase our gross domestic product by an estimated $700 billion over 10 years.


Then there are the new public investments that will help establish businesses and entrepreneurs, create the next generation of high-paying jobs.

You know, when we get Americans moving, we get our country moving. So let's establish an infrastructure bank that can channel more public and private funds…


… channel those funds to finance world-class airports, railways, roads, bridges and ports.


And let's built those faster broadband networks and make sure there's a greater diversity of providers so consumers have more choice.


And really, there's no excuse not to make greater investments in cleaner renewable energy right now.


Our economy obviously runs on energy, and the time has come to make America the clean-energy superpower. I advocate that because these investments will create millions of jobs, save us money in the long run and help us meet the threats of climate change.

And let's fund the scientific and medical research that spawns innovative companies and creates entire new industries, just as the project to sequence the human genome did in the 1990s and President Obama's initiatives on precision medicine and brain research will do in the coming years.

I will set ambitious goals in all of these areas in the months ahead.

But today, let me emphasize another key ingredient of strong growth that often goes overlooked and undervalued: breaking down barriers so more Americans participate more fully in the workforce, especially women.


We are in a global competition, as I'm sure you have noticed. And we cant afford to leave talent on the sidelines. But that's exactly what we're doing today. When we leave people out or write them off, we not only shortchange them and their dreams, we shortchange our country and our future.

The movement of women into the American workforce over the past 40 years was responsible for more than $3.5 trillion in economic growth. But that progress has stalled.

The United States used to rank 7th out of 24 advanced countries in women's labor force participation. By 2013, we had dropped to 19th. That represents a lot of unused potential for our economy and for American families.

Studies show that nearly a third of this decline relative to other countries is because they're expanding family-friendly policies like paid leave and we are not.

We should be making it easier for Americans to be both good workers and good parents and caregivers. Women who want to work should be able to do so without worrying every day about how they're going to take care of their children or what will happen if a family member gets sick.

You know, last year –


– last year while I was at the hospital here in Manhattan, waiting for little Charlotte to make her grand entrance, one of the nurses said, thank you for fighting for paid leave. And we began to talk about it. She sees firsthand what it means for herself and her colleagues as well as for the working parents that she helps take care of.

It's time to recognize that quality, affordable childcare is not a luxury. It's a growth strategy. And it's way past time to end the outrage of so many women still earning less than men on the job and women of color making even less.


You know, all this lost money adds up. And for some women, it's thousands of dollars every year. Now I am well aware that for far too long these challenges have been dismissed by some as women's issues. Well, those days are over.


Fair pay and fair scheduling, paid family leave and earned sick days, childcare are essential to our competitiveness and our growth. And we can do this in a way that doesn't impose unfair burdens on businesses, especially small businesses. As president, I'll fight to put families first, just like I have my entire career.


Now beyond strong growth, we also need fair growth and that will be the second key driver of raising incomes. The evidence is in. Inequality is a drag on our entire economy. So this is the problem we need to tackle. Now, you may have heard Governor Bush say Americans just need to work longer hours. Well, he must not have met very many American workers.


Let him tell that to the nurse who stands on her feet all day, or the teacher who in that classroom or the trucker who drives all night. Let him tell that to the fast worker marching in the streets for better pay. They do not need a lecture. They need a raise.


The truth is the current rules for our economy do reward some work, like financial trading, for example much more than other work, like actually building and selling things, the work that has always been the backbone of our economy. To get all incomes rising again, we need to strike a better balance. If you work hard, you ought to be a fairly. So, we do have to raise the minimum wage, and implement President Obama's new rules on overtime, and then we have to go further.


I will crack down on bosses who exploit employees by mis- classifying them as contractors or even steal their wages. To make paychecks stretch, we need to take on the major strains on family budgets. I will protect the Affordable Care Act and build on it to lower out-of-pocket health care costs.


And to make prescription drugs more affordable. We will help families look forward to retirement by defending and enhancing Social Security and making it easier to save for the future. Now, many of these proposals are time-tested and more than a little battle scarred. We need new ideas, as well, and one I believe in and will fight for is profit-sharing. Hard-working Americans deserve to benefit from the record corporate earnings they help produce.

So, I will produce ways to encourage companies to share profits with their employees. That is good for workers and good businesses. Studies show that profit sharing that gives everyone a stake in the company's success can boost productivity and put money directly into employees' pockets. It's a win-win. Later this week in New Hampshire, I will have more to say about how we do this.

Another priority must be reforming our tax code. Now, we hear Republican candidates talk a lot about tax reform. But take a good look at their plans. Senator Rubio's would cut taxes for households making around $3 million a year by almost $240,000, which is way more than three times the earnings of a typical family.

Well, that is a sure budget busting giveaway to the super wealthy, and that's the kind of bad economics you are likely to hear from any of the candidates on the other side. I have a different take…


… guided license principles. First, hard-working families need and deserve tax relief and simplification. Second, those at the top have to pay their fair share. That's why I support the Buffet Rule, which makes sure millionaires do not pay lower rates than their secretaries. I have called for closing the carried interest loophole, that lets wealthy financiers pay an artificially low rate.

And let's agree that hugely successful companies that benefit from everything that America has to offer, should not be able to game the system and avoid paying their fair share, especially while companies who can't afford high-priced lawyers and lobbyists end up paying more.

CLINTON: Alongside tax reform, it's time to stand up to efforts across our country to undermine worker bargaining power, which has been proven again and again to drive up wages. Republican governors like Scott Walker have made their names stomping on workers' rights, and practically all the Republican candidates hope to do the same as president. I will fight back against these mean-spirited, misguided attacks. Evidence –


– evidence shows that the decline of unions may be responsible for a third of the increase of inequality among men, so if we want to get serious about raising incomes, we have to get serious about supporting union workers.


And let me just say a word here about trade. The Greek crisis as well as the Chinese stock market have reminded us that growth here at home and growth an ocean away are linked in a common global economy. Trade has been a major driver of the economy over recent decades, but it has also contributed to hollowing out our manufacturing base and many hard-working communities.

So we do need to set a high bar for trade agreements. We should support them if they create jobs, raise wages and advance our national security. And we should be prepared to walk away if they don't. To create fair growth, we need to create opportunity for more Americans.

I love the saying by Abraham Lincoln who, in many ways, was not only the president who saved our union but the president who understood profoundly the importance of the middle class and the importance of government playing its role in providing opportunities. He talked about giving Americans a fair chance in the race of life. I believe that with all my heart, but I also believe it has to start really early, at birth.

High quality early learning, especially in the first five years, can set children on the course for future success and raise lifetime incomes by 25 percent. And –


– and I'm committed to seeing every 4-year-old in America have access to high quality pre-school in the next 10 years. But I want to do more. I want to call for a great outpouring of support from our faith community, our business community, our academic institutions, from philanthropy and civic groups and concerned citizens, to really help parents, particularly parents who are facing a lot of obstacles, to really help prepare their own children in that 0 to 4 age group.

Eighty percent of your brain is physically formed by the age of 3. That's why families like mine read, talk and sing endlessly to our granddaughter. I've said that her first words are going to be enough with the reading and the talking and the singing.

(LAUGHTER)

But we do it not only because we love doing it, even though, I'll admit, it's embarrassing, you know, reading a book to a two-week-old or a six-week-old or a 10-week-old, but we do it because we understand it's building her capacity for learning. And the research shows by the time she enters kindergarten, she will have heard 30 million more words than a child from a less advantaged background.

Think of what we are losing because we're not doing everything we can to reach out to those families, and we know, again, from so much research here in the United States and around the world that that early help, that mentoring, that intervention to help those often stressed-out young moms understand more about what they can do and to avoid the difficulties that stand in the way of their being able to really get their child off to the best possible start.

We also have to invest in our students and our teachers at every level, and in the coming weeks and months, I will lay out specific steps to improve our schools, make college truly affordable and help Americans refinance their student debt.

And let's embrace –


– let's embrace the idea of lifelong learning. In an age of technological change, we need to provide pathways to get skills and credentials for new occupations and create online platforms to connect workers to jobs.

There are exciting efforts underway and I want to support and scale the ones that show results.

As we pursue all these policies, we cant forget our fellow Americans hit so hard and left behind by this changing world from the inner cities to coal country to Indian country.

Talent is universal; you find it everywhere. But opportunity is not. There are nearly 6 million young people aged 16 to 24 in America today who are not in school or at work. The numbers for young people of color are particularly staggering.

A quarter of young black men and nearly 15 percent of all Latino youth cannot find a job. We've got to do a better way of coming up to match the growing middle class incomes we want to generate with more pathways into the middle class.

I firmly believe that the best anti-poverty program is a job but that's hard to say if there aren't enough jobs for people that were trying to help lift themselves out of poverty.

That's why Ive called for reviving the new markets tax credit and empowerment zones to create greater incentives to invest in poor and remote areas. When –


– when all Americans have the chance to study hard, work hard and share in our country's prosperity, that's fair growth. It's what I've always believed in and it's what I will fight for as president.

Now the third key driver of income, alongside strong growth and fair growth, must be long-term growth. Too many pressures in our economy push us toward short-termism. Many business leaders see this. They've talked to me about it.

One has called it the problem of quarterly capitalism. They say everything is focused on the next earnings report or the short-term share price and the result is too little attention on the sources of long-term growth: research and development, physical capital and talent.

Net business investment, which includes things like factories, machines and research labs, have declined as a share of the economy.

In recent years some of our biggest companies have spent more than half their earnings to buy back their own stock and another third or more to pay dividends. That doesn't leave a lot left to raise pay or invest in the workers who made those profits possible or to make new investments necessary to ensure a company's future success.

These trends need to change. And I believe many business leaders are eager to embrace their responsibilities, not just to today's share price but also to workers, communities and ultimately to our country and, indeed, our planet.

Now I'm not talking about charity; I'm talking about clear-eyed capitalism. Many companies have prospered by improving wages and training their workers that then yield higher productivity, better service and larger profits.

Now it's easy to try to cut costs by holding down or even decreasing pay and other investments to inflate quarterly stock prices but I would argue that's bad for business in the long run and it's really bad for our country.

Workers are assets. Investing in them pays off; higher wages pay off. Training pays off. To help more companies do that, I proposed a $1,500 tax credit for every worker they train and hire. And I will soon be proposing a new plan to reform capital gains taxes to reward longer-term investments that create jobs, more than just quick trades.


I will also propose reforms to help CEOs and shareholders alike to focus on the next decade rather than just the next day.


Making sure stock buybacks aren't being used only for an immediate boost in share prices; empowering outside investors who want to build companies, but discouraging cut and run shareholders who act more like old-school corporate raiders. And nowhere will the shift from short-term to long-term be more important than on Wall Street.

As a former senator from New York, I know firsthand the role that Wall Street can and should play in our economy, helping main street grow and prosper, and boosting new companies that make America more competitive globally.

But as we all know in the years before the crash, financial firms piled risk upon risk, and regulators in Washington either could not or would not keep up. I was alarmed by this gathering storm and called for addressing the risks of derivatives, cracking down on subprime mortgages and improving financial oversight.

Under President Obama's leadership we have imposed tough new rules that deal with some of the challenges on Wall Street. Those rules have been under assault by Republicans in Congress and those running for president. I will fight back against these attacks and protect the reforms we have made. We can do that, and still ease burdens on community banks to encourage responsible loans to local people and businesses they know and trust.

We also have to go beyond Dodd-Frank. Too many of our major financial institutions are still too complex and too risky. And the problems are not limited to the big banks that get all the headlines. Serious risks are emerging from institutions in the so-called shadow banking system, including hedge funds, high-frequency traders, non- bank finance companies. So many new kinds of entities, which receive little oversight at all.

Stories of misconduct by individuals and institutions in the financial industry are shocking. HSBC allowing drug cartels to launder money, five major banks pleading guilty to felony charges for conspiring to manipulate currency exchange and interest rates. There can be no justification or tolerance for this kind of criminal behavior.


And while institutions have paid large fines and in some cases admitted guilt, too often it has seemed that the human beings responsible get off with limited consequences or none at all, even when they have already pocketed the gains. This is wrong, and on my watch it will change. Over the course…


… over the course of this campaign, I will offer plans to rein in excessive risks on Wall Street and ensure that stock markets work for everyday investors, not just high-frequency traders and those with the best or fastest connections. I will appoint and empower regulators who understand that too big to fail is still too big a problem. We will ensure…


We will ensure that no firm is too complex to manage or oversee. And we will also process individuals as well as firms when they commit fraud or other criminal wrongdoing.


When the government recovers money from corporations or individuals for harming the public, it should go into a separate trust fund to benefit the public. It could, for example, help modernize infrastructure or even be returned directly to taxpayers.

Now, reform is never easy, but we've done it before in our country, and we have to get it right this time. And yes, we need leadership from the financial industry and across the private sector to join with us.

Two years ago, the head of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Terry Duffy, published an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal that really caught my attention.

He wrote, and I quote, “I'm concerned that those of us in financial services have forgotten who they serve and that the public knows it. Some Wall Streeters can too easily slip into regarding their work as a kind of moneymaking game divorced from concerns of the Main Street,” unquote.

I think we should listen to Terry Duffy. Of course, long-term growth is only possible if the public sector steps up as well.

So it's time to end the era of budget brinkmanship and stop careening from one self-inflicted crisis to another. It's time to stop having debates over the small stuff and focus how we're going to tackle the big stuff together.

How do we respond to technological change in a way that creates more good jobs than it displaces or destroys? Can we sustain a boom in advanced manufacturing? What are the best ways to nurture startups outside the successful corridors, like Silicon Valley?

Questions like these demand thoughtful and mature debate from our policymakers and government, from our leaders in the private sector, our economists, our academics, others who can come together to the table and on behalf of America perform their patriotic duty to make sure our economy keeps working and our middle class keeps growing.


So government has to be smarter, simpler, more focused itself on long-term investments than short-term politics and be a better partner to cities, states and the private sector. Washington has to be a better steward of America's tax dollars and Americans' trust. And please, let's get back to making decisions that rely on evidence more than ideology.


That's what I'll do as president. I will seek out and welcome any good idea that is actually based on reality.

(LAUGHTER)


I want to have principled and pragmatic and progressive policies that really move us forward together, and I will propose ways to ensure that our fiscal outlook is sustainable, including by continuing to restrain health care costs, which remain one of the key drivers of long-term deficits.

I will make sure Washington learns from how well local governments, businesses and nonprofits are working together in successful cities and towns across America.

You know, passing legislation is not the only way to drive progress. As president, I will use the power to convene, connect and collaborate to build partnerships that actually get things done, because above all, we have to break out of the poisonous partisan gridlock and focus on the long-term needs of our country.


I confess, maybe it's the grandmother in me, but I believe that part of public service is planting trees under whose shade you'll never sit, and the vision I've laid out here today for strong growth, fair growth and long-term growth all working together will get incomes rising again, will help working families get ahead and stay ahead. That is the test of our time.

And I'm inviting everyone to please join me to do your part. That's what great countries do. That's what our country always has done. We rise to challenges. It's not about left, right or center; it's about the future versus the past.

I'm running for president to build an America for tomorrow, not yesterday, an America built on growth and fairness, an America where if you do your part, you will reap the rewards, where we don't leave anyone behind.


Thank you all. Thank you. I just want to leave you with one more thought. I want every child, not just the granddaughter of a former president or former secretary of state, but every child to be able to reach for her God-given potential. Please join me in that mission - let's do it together.

Thank you all so much.

Thank you!  Oh, thank you all!  Thank you so very, very much.  
It is wonderful to be here with all of you. 
Story Continued Below
To be in New York  with my family, with so many friends, including many New Yorkers who gave me the honor of serving them in the Senate for eight years.  
To be right across the water from the headquarters of the United Nations, where I represented our country many times.  
To be here in this beautiful park dedicated to Franklin Roosevelt's enduring vision of America, the nation we want to be.
And in a place… with absolutely no ceilings.  
You know, President Roosevelt's Four Freedoms are a testament to our nation's unmatched aspirations and a reminder of our unfinished work at home and abroad.  His legacy lifted up a nation and inspired presidents who followed.  One is the man I served as Secretary of State, Barack Obama,  and another is my husband, Bill Clinton.  
Two Democrats guided by the -   Oh, that will make him so happy.  They were and are two Democrats guided by the fundamental American belief that real and lasting prosperity must be built by all and shared by all.  
President Roosevelt called on every American to do his or her part, and every American answered.  He said there's no mystery about what it takes to build a strong and prosperous America: “Equality of opportunity… Jobs for those who can work… Security for those who need it… The ending of special privilege for the few…  The preservation of civil liberties for all…  a wider and constantly rising standard of living.” 
That still sounds good to me.  
It's America's basic bargain.  If you do your part you ought to be able to get ahead.  And when everybody does their part, America gets ahead too. 
That bargain inspired generations of families, including my own. 
It's what kept my grandfather going to work in the same Scranton lace mill every day for 50 years. 
It's what led my father to believe that if he scrimped and saved, his small business printing drapery fabric in Chicago could provide us with a middle-class life.  And it did.
When President Clinton honored the bargain, we had the longest peacetime expansion in history, a balanced budget,  and the first time in decades we all grew together, with the bottom 20 percent of workers increasing their incomes by the same percentage as the top 5 percent.  
When President Obama honored the bargain, we pulled back from the brink of Depression, saved the auto industry, provided health care to 16 million working people,  and replaced the jobs we lost faster than after a financial crash.
But, it's not 1941, or 1993, or even 2009.  We face new challenges in our economy and our democracy.
We're still working our way back from a crisis that happened because time-tested values were replaced by false promises. 
Instead of an economy built by every American, for every American, we were told that if we let those at the top pay lower taxes and bend the rules, their success would trickle down to everyone else.  
What happened?
Well, instead of a balanced budget with surpluses that could have eventually paid off our national debt, the Republicans twice cut taxes for the wealthiest, borrowed money from other countries to pay for two wars, and family incomes dropped.  You know where we ended up.
Except it wasn't the end. 
As we have since our founding, Americans made a new beginning.
You worked extra shifts, took second jobs, postponed home repairs... you figured out how to make it work.  And now people are beginning to think about their future again – going to college, starting a business, buying a house, finally being able to put away something for retirement. 
So we're standing again.  But, we all know we're not yet running the way America should. 
You see corporations making record profits, with CEOs making record pay, but your paychecks have barely budged. 
While many of you are working multiple jobs to make ends meet, you see the top 25 hedge fund managers making more than all of America's kindergarten teachers combined.  And, often paying a lower tax rate.
So, you have to wonder: “When does my hard work pay off? When does my family get ahead?”
“When?”
I say now.  
Prosperity can't be just for CEOs and hedge fund managers.
Democracy can't be just for billionaires and corporations. 
Prosperity and democracy are part of your basic bargain too.
You brought our country back.
Now it's time - your time to secure the gains and move ahead.
And, you know what? 
America can't succeed unless you succeed. 
That is why I am running for President of the United States.  
Here, on Roosevelt Island, I believe we have a continuing rendezvous with destiny.  Each American and the country we cherish. 
I'm running to make our economy work for you and for every American. 
For the successful and the struggling. 
For the innovators and inventors. 
For those breaking barriers in technology and discovering cures for diseases.
For the factory workers and food servers who stand on their feet all day.  
For the nurses who work the night shift.  
For the truckers who drive for hours and the farmers who feed us.  
For the veterans who served our country. 
For the small business owners who took a risk. 
For everyone who's ever been knocked down, but refused to be knocked out.  
I'm not running for some Americans, but for all Americans.  
Our country's challenges didn't begin with the Great Recession and they won't end with the recovery. 
For decades, Americans have been buffeted by powerful currents. 
Advances in technology and the rise of global trade have created whole new areas of economic activity and opened new markets for our exports, but they have also displaced jobs and undercut wages for millions of Americans. 
The financial industry and many multi-national corporations have created huge wealth for a few by focusing too much on short-term profit and too little on long-term value… too much on complex trading schemes and stock buybacks, too little on investments in new businesses, jobs, and fair compensation.  
Our political system is so paralyzed by gridlock and dysfunction that most Americans have lost confidence that anything can actually get done.  And they've lost trust in the ability of both government and Big Business to change course.
Now, we can blame historic forces beyond our control for some of this, but the choices we've made as a nation, leaders and citizens alike, have also played a big role.
Our next President must work with Congress and every other willing partner across our entire country.  And I will do just that -  to turn the tide so these currents start working for us more than against us. 
At our best, that's what Americans do.   We're problem solvers, not deniers.  We don't hide from change, we harness it.  
But we can't do that if we go back to the top-down economic policies that failed us before. 
Americans have come too far to see our progress ripped away. 
Now, there may be some new voices in the presidential Republican choir,  but they're all singing the same old song... 
A song called “Yesterday.”  
You know the one - all our troubles look as though they're here to stay … and we need a place to hide away… They believe in yesterday.
And you're lucky I didn't try singing that, too, I'll tell you!  
These Republicans trip over themselves promising lower taxes for the wealthy and fewer rules for the biggest corporations without regard for how that will make income inequality even worse.
We've heard this tune before.  And we know how it turns out. 
Ask many of these candidates about climate change, one of the defining threats of our time,  and they'll say:  “I'm not a scientist.”    Well, then, why don't they start listening to those who are?  (Cheers, applause.)
They pledge to wipe out tough rules on Wall Street, rather than rein in the banks that are still too risky, courting future failures.  In a case that can only be considered mass amnesia.
They want to take away health insurance from more than 16 million Americans without offering any credible alternative.  
They shame and blame women, rather than respect our right to make our own reproductive health decisions. 
They want to put immigrants, who work hard and pay taxes, at risk of deportation.  
And they turn their backs on gay people who love each other.  
Fundamentally, they reject what it takes to build an inclusive economy.  It takes an inclusive society.    What I once called “a village”  that has a place for everyone.
Now, my values and a lifetime of experiences have given me a different vision for America.
I believe that success isn't measured by how much the wealthiest Americans have, but by how many children climb out of poverty... 
How many start-ups and small businesses open and thrive…
How many young people go to college without drowning in debt… 
How many people find a good job…
How many families get ahead and stay ahead.
I didn't learn this from politics.  I learned it from my own family.
My mother taught me that everybody needs a chance and a champion.  She knew what it was like not to have either one.
Her own parents abandoned her, and by 14 she was out on her own, working as a housemaid.  Years later, when I was old enough to understand, I asked what kept her going. 
You know what her answer was?  Something very simple:  Kindness from someone who believed she mattered. 
The 1 st grade teacher who saw she had nothing to eat at lunch and, without embarrassing her, brought extra food to share.
The woman whose house she cleaned letting her go to high school so long as her work got done.  That was a bargain she leapt to accept.
And, because some people believed in her, she believed in me.  
That's why I believe with all my heart in America and in the potential of every American.
To meet every challenge.
To be resilient… no matter what the world throws at you.
To solve the toughest problems.
I believe we can do all these things because I've seen it happen.
As a young girl, I signed up at my Methodist Church to babysit the children of Mexican farmworkers, while their parents worked in the fields on the weekends.  And later, as a law student, I advocated for Congress to require better working and living conditions for farm workers whose children deserved better opportunities.  
My first job out of law school was for the Children's Defense Fund.    I walked door-to-door to find out how many children with disabilities couldn't go to school, and to help build the case for a law guaranteeing them access to education.  
As a leader of the Legal Services Corporation, I defended the right of poor people to have a lawyer.  And saw lives changed because an abusive marriage ended or an illegal eviction stopped.
In Arkansas, I supervised law students who represented clients in courts and prisons, organized scholarships for single parents going to college, led efforts for better schools and health care, and personally knew the people whose lives were improved.
As Senator, I had the honor of representing brave firefighters, police officers, EMTs, construction workers, and volunteers  who ran toward danger on 9/11 and stayed there, becoming sick themselves. 
It took years of effort, but Congress finally approved the health care they needed.  
There are so many faces and stories that I carry with me of people who gave their best and then needed help themselves.
Just weeks ago, I met another person like that, a single mom juggling a job and classes at community college, while raising three kids.
She doesn't expect anything to come easy.  But she did ask me: What more can be done so it isn't quite so hard for families like hers? 
I want to be her champion and your champion.  
If you'll give me the chance, I'll wage and win Four Fights for you.
The first is to make the economy work for everyday Americans, not just those at the top.  
To make the middle class mean something again, with rising incomes and broader horizons.  And to give the poor a chance to work their way into it. 
The middle class needs more growth and more fairness.  Growth and fairness go together.  For lasting prosperity, you can't have one without the other.
Is this possible in today's world?  
I believe it is or I wouldn't be standing here.  
Do I think it will be easy?  Of course not.
But, here's the good news:  There are allies for change everywhere who know we can't stand by while inequality increases, wages stagnate, and the promise of America dims.  We should welcome the support of all Americans who want to go forward together with us.  
There are public officials who know Americans need a better deal. 
Business leaders who want higher pay for employees, equal pay for women  and no discrimination against the LGBT community either.  
There are leaders of finance who want less short-term trading and more long-term investing. 
There are union leaders who are investing their own pension funds in putting people to work to build tomorrow's economy.   We need everyone to come to the table and work with us.
In the coming weeks, I'll propose specific policies to:
Reward businesses who invest in long term value rather than the quick buck – because that leads to higher growth for the economy, higher wages for workers, and yes, bigger profits, everybody will have a better time.
I will rewrite the tax code so it rewards hard work and investments here at home, not quick trades or stashing profits overseas.  
I will give new incentives to companies that give their employees a fair share of the profits their hard work earns.  
We will unleash a new generation of entrepreneurs and small business owners by providing tax relief, cutting red tape, and making it easier to get a small business loan. 
We will restore America to the cutting edge of innovation, science, and research by increasing both public and private investments.  
And we will make America the clean energy superpower of the 21 st century.  
Developing renewable power – wind, solar, advanced biofuels…
Building cleaner power plants, smarter electric grids, greener buildings…
Using additional fees and royalties from fossil fuel extraction to protect the environment… 
And ease the transition for distressed communities to a more diverse and sustainable economic future from coal country to Indian country, from small towns in the Mississippi Delta to the Rio Grande Valley to our inner cities, we have to help our fellow Americans.  
Now, this will create millions of jobs and countless new businesses, and enable America to lead the global fight against climate change.  
We will also connect workers to their jobs and businesses.  Customers will have a better chance to actually get where they need and get what they desire with roads, railways, bridges, airports, ports, and broadband brought up to global standards for the 21 st century.  
We will establish an infrastructure bank and sell bonds to pay for some of these improvements.
Now, building an economy for tomorrow also requires investing in our most important asset, our people, beginning with our youngest.  
That's why I will propose that we make preschool and quality childcare available to every child in America.  
And I want you to remember this, because to me, this is absolutely the most-compelling argument why we should do this.  Research tells us how much early learning in the first five years of life can impact lifelong success.  In fact, 80 percent of the brain is developed by age three. 
One thing I've learned is that talent is universal – you can find it anywhere – but opportunity is not.    Too many of our kids never have the chance to learn and thrive as they should and as we need them to. 
Our country won't be competitive or fair if we don't help more families give their kids the best possible start in life. 
So let's staff our primary and secondary schools with teachers who are second to none in the world, and receive the respect they deserve for sparking the love of learning in every child.  
Let's make college affordable and available to all …and lift the crushing burden of student debt.  
Let's provide lifelong learning for workers to gain or improve skills the economy requires, setting up many more Americans for success.
Now, the second fight is to strengthen America's families, because when our families are strong, America is strong.
And today's families face new and unique pressures.  Parents need more support and flexibility to do their job at work and at home.  
I believe you should have the right to earn paid sick days. 
I believe you should receive your work schedule with enough notice to arrange childcare or take college courses to get ahead.  
I believe you should look forward to retirement with confidence, not anxiety. 
That you should have the peace of mind that your health care will be there when you need it, without breaking the bank.  
I believe we should offer paid family leave  so no one has to choose between keeping a paycheck and caring for a new baby or a sick relative. 
And it is way past time to end the outrage of so many women still earning less than men on the job  - and women of color often making even less.  
This isn't a women's issue.  It's a family issue.  Just like raising the minimum wage is a family issue.    Expanding childcare is a family issue.  Declining marriage rates is a family issue.  The unequal rates of incarceration is a family issue.    Helping more people with an addiction or a mental health problem get help is a family issue.  (Cheers, applause.)
In America, every family should feel like they belong. 
So we should offer hard-working, law-abiding immigrant families a path to citizenship.   Not second-class status.  
And, we should ban discrimination against LGBT Americans and their families  so they can live, learn, marry, and work just like everybody else.  
You know, America's diversity, our openness, our devotion to human rights and freedom is what's drawn so many to our shores.  What's inspired people all over the world.  I know.  I've seen it with my own eyes. 
And these are also qualities that prepare us well for the demands of a world that is more interconnected than ever before.
So we have a third fight: to harness all of America's power, smarts, and values to maintain our leadership for peace, security, and prosperity.
No other country on Earth is better positioned to thrive in the 21 st century.  No other country is better equipped to meet traditional threats from countries like Russia, North Korea, and Iran – and to deal with the rise of new powers like China. 
No other country is better prepared to meet emerging threats from cyber attacks, transnational terror networks like ISIS, and diseases that spread across oceans and continents.
As your President, I'll do whatever it takes to keep Americans safe.  
And if you look over my left shoulder you can see the new World Trade Center soaring skyward.  
As a Senator from New York, I dedicated myself to getting our city and state the help we needed to recover.  And as a member of the Armed Services Committee, I worked to maintain the best-trained, best-equipped, strongest military, ready for today's threats and tomorrow's. 
And when our brave men and women come home from war or finish their service, I'll see to it that they get not just the thanks of a grateful nation, but the care and benefits they've earned.  
I've stood up to adversaries like Putin and reinforced allies like Israel.  I was in the Situation Room on the day we got bin Laden.  
But, I know - I know we have to be smart as well as strong. 
Meeting today's global challenges requires every element of America's power, including skillful diplomacy, economic influence, and building partnerships to improve lives around the world with people, not just their governments.
There are a lot of trouble spots in the world, but there's a lot of good news out there too. 
I believe the future holds far more opportunities than threats if we exercise creative and confident leadership that enables us to shape global events rather than be shaped by them.  
And we all know that in order to be strong in the world, though, we first have to be strong at home.  That's why we have to win the fourth fight – reforming our government and revitalizing our democracy so that it works for everyday Americans.   
We have to stop the endless flow of secret, unaccountable money that is distorting our elections, corrupting our political process, and drowning out the voices of our people.  
We need Justices on the Supreme Court who will protect every citizen's right to vote,  rather than every corporation's right to buy elections.  
If necessary, I will support a constitutional amendment to undo the Supreme Court's decision in Citizens United.  
I want to make it easier for every citizen to vote.  That's why I've proposed universal, automatic registration and expanded early voting.  
I'll fight back against Republican efforts to disempower and disenfranchise young people, poor people, people with disabilities, and people of color.  
What part of democracy are they afraid of?  
No matter how easy we make it to vote, we still have to give Americans something worth voting for.  
Government is never going to have all the answers – but it has to be smarter, simpler, more efficient, and a better partner. 
That means access to advanced technology so government agencies can more effectively serve their customers, the American people. 
We need expertise and innovation from the private sector to help cut waste and streamline services.
There's so much that works in America.  For every problem we face, someone somewhere in America is solving it.  Silicon Valley cracked the code on sharing and scaling a while ago.  Many states are pioneering new ways to deliver services.  I want to help Washington catch up.  
To do that, we need a political system that produces results by solving problems that hold us back, not one overwhelmed by extreme partisanship and inflexibility. 
Now, I'll always seek common ground with friend and opponent alike.  But I'll also stand my ground when I must.  
That's something I did as Senator and Secretary of State - whether it was working with Republicans to expand health care for children and for our National Guard, or improve our foster care and adoption system, or pass a treaty to reduce the number of Russian nuclear warheads that could threaten our cities - and it's something I will always do as your President.
We Americans may differ, bicker, stumble, and fall; but we are at our best when we pick each other up, when we have each other's back. 
Like any family, our American family is strongest when we cherish what we have in common, and fight back against those who would drive us apart.
People all over the world have asked me: “How could you and President Obama work together after you fought so hard against each other in that long campaign?” 
Now, that is an understandable question considering that in many places, if you lose an election you could get imprisoned or exiled – even killed – not hired as Secretary of State.  
But President Obama asked me to serve, and I accepted because we both love our country.    That's how we do it in America.
With that same spirit, together, we can win these four fights. 
We can build an economy where hard work is rewarded.
We can strengthen our families.
We can defend our country and increase our opportunities all over the world.
And we can renew the promise of our democracy.
If we all do our part.  In our families, in our businesses, unions, houses of worship, schools, and, yes, in the voting booth. 
I want you to join me in this effort.  Help me build this campaign and make it your own. 
Talk to your friends, your family, your neighbors.
Text “JOIN” J-O-I-N to 4-7-2-4-6.
Go to hillaryclinton.com and sign up to make calls and knock on doors.  
It's no secret that we're going up against some pretty powerful forces that will do and spend whatever it takes to advance a very different vision for America.  But I've spent my life fighting for children, families, and our country.  And I'm not stopping now.  
You know, I know how hard this job is.  I've seen it up close and personal.  
All our Presidents come into office looking so vigorous.   And then we watch their hair grow grayer and grayer. 
Well, I may not be the youngest candidate in this race.  But I will be the youngest woman President in the history of the United States!  
And the first grandmother as well.  
And one additional advantage:   You're won't see my hair turn white in the White House.  I've been coloring it for years!  
So I'm looking forward to a great debate among Democrats, Republicans, and Independents.  I'm not running to be a President only for those Americans who already agree with me.  I want to be a President for all Americans.
And along the way, I'll just let you in on this little secret.    I won't get everything right.  Lord knows I've made my share of mistakes.  Well, there's no shortage of people pointing them out!   
And I certainly haven't won every battle I've fought.  But leadership means perseverance and hard choices.  You have to push through the setbacks and disappointments and keep at it.  
I think you know by now that I've been called many things by many people  - “quitter” is not one of them.  
Like so much else in my life, I got this from my mother.
When I was a girl, she never let me back down from any bully or barrier.  In her later years, Mom lived with us, and she was still teaching me the same lessons.  I'd come home from a hard day at the Senate or the State Department, sit down with her at the small table in our breakfast nook, and just let everything pour out.  And she would remind me why we keep fighting, even when the odds are long and the opposition is fierce. 
I can still hear her saying: “Life's not about what happens to you, it's about what you do with what happens to you – so get back out there.”  
She lived to be 92 years old, and I often think about all the battles she witnessed over the course of the last century - all the progress that was won because Americans refused to give up or back down.  
She was born on June 4, 1919 - before women in America had the right to vote.  But on that very day, after years of struggle, Congress passed the Constitutional Amendment that would change that forever.
The story of America is a story of hard-fought, hard-won progress.  And it continues today.  New chapters are being written by men and women who believe that all of us – not just some, but all – should have the chance to live up to our God-given potential. 
Not only because we're a tolerant country, or a generous country, or a compassionate country, but because we're a better, stronger, more prosperous country when we harness the talent, hard work, and ingenuity of every single American. 
I wish my mother could have been with us longer.  I wish she could have seen Chelsea become a mother herself.  I wish she could have met Charlotte.
I wish she could have seen the America we're going to build together.  
An America, where if you do your part, you reap the rewards.
Where we don't leave anyone out, or anyone behind.
An America where a father can tell his daughter:  yes, you can be anything you want to be.  Even President of the United States. 
Thank you all.  God bless you.  And may God bless America. 
Thank you! Oh, thank you all! Thank you so very, very much.
It is wonderful to be here with all of you.
To be in New York with my family, with so many friends, including many New Yorkers who gave me the honor of serving them in the Senate for eight years.
To be right across the water from the headquarters of the United Nations, where I represented our country many times.
To be here in this beautiful park dedicated to Franklin Roosevelt's enduring vision of America, the nation we want to be.
And in a place… with absolutely no ceilings.
You know, President Roosevelt's Four Freedoms are a testament to our nation's unmatched aspirations and a reminder of our unfinished work at home and abroad. His legacy lifted up a nation and inspired presidents who followed. One is the man I served as Secretary of State, Barack Obama, and another is my husband, Bill Clinton.
Two Democrats guided by the - Oh, that will make him so happy. They were and are two Democrats guided by the fundamental American belief that real and lasting prosperity must be built by all and shared by all.
President Roosevelt called on every American to do his or her part, and every American answered. He said there's no mystery about what it takes to build a strong and prosperous America: “Equality of opportunity… Jobs for those who can work… Security for those who need it… The ending of special privilege for the few… The preservation of civil liberties for all… a wider and constantly rising standard of living.”
That still sounds good to me.
It's America's basic bargain. If you do your part you ought to be able to get ahead. And when everybody does their part, America gets ahead too.
That bargain inspired generations of families, including my own.
It's what kept my grandfather going to work in the same Scranton lace mill every day for 50 years.
It's what led my father to believe that if he scrimped and saved, his small business printing drapery fabric in Chicago could provide us with a middle-class life. And it did.
When President Clinton honored the bargain, we had the longest peacetime expansion in history, a balanced budget, and the first time in decades we all grew together, with the bottom 20 percent of workers increasing their incomes by the same percentage as the top 5 percent.
When President Obama honored the bargain, we pulled back from the brink of Depression, saved the auto industry, provided health care to 16 million working people, and replaced the jobs we lost faster than after a financial crash.
But, it's not 1941, or 1993, or even 2009. We face new challenges in our economy and our democracy.
We're still working our way back from a crisis that happened because time-tested values were replaced by false promises.
Instead of an economy built by every American, for every American, we were told that if we let those at the top pay lower taxes and bend the rules, their success would trickle down to everyone else.
What happened?
Well, instead of a balanced budget with surpluses that could have eventually paid off our national debt, the Republicans twice cut taxes for the wealthiest, borrowed money from other countries to pay for two wars, and family incomes dropped. You know where we ended up.
Except it wasn't the end.
As we have since our founding, Americans made a new beginning.
You worked extra shifts, took second jobs, postponed home repairs… you figured out how to make it work. And now people are beginning to think about their future again – going to college, starting a business, buying a house, finally being able to put away something for retirement.
So we're standing again. But, we all know we're not yet running the way America should.
You see corporations making record profits, with CEOs making record pay, but your paychecks have barely budged.
While many of you are working multiple jobs to make ends meet, you see the top 25 hedge fund managers making more than all of America's kindergarten teachers combined. And, often paying a lower tax rate.
So, you have to wonder: “When does my hard work pay off? When does my family get ahead?”
“When?”
I say now.
Prosperity can't be just for CEOs and hedge fund managers.
Democracy can't be just for billionaires and corporations.
Prosperity and democracy are part of your basic bargain too.
You brought our country back.
Now it's time - your time to secure the gains and move ahead.
And, you know what?
America can't succeed unless you succeed.
That is why I am running for President of the United States.
Here, on Roosevelt Island, I believe we have a continuing rendezvous with destiny. Each American and the country we cherish.
I'm running to make our economy work for you and for every American.
For the successful and the struggling.
For the innovators and inventors.
For those breaking barriers in technology and discovering cures for diseases.
For the factory workers and food servers who stand on their feet all day.
For the nurses who work the night shift.
For the truckers who drive for hours and the farmers who feed us.
For the veterans who served our country.
For the small business owners who took a risk.
For everyone who's ever been knocked down, but refused to be knocked out.
I'm not running for some Americans, but for all Americans.
Our country's challenges didn't begin with the Great Recession and they won't end with the recovery.
For decades, Americans have been buffeted by powerful currents.
Advances in technology and the rise of global trade have created whole new areas of economic activity and opened new markets for our exports, but they have also displaced jobs and undercut wages for millions of Americans.
The financial industry and many multi-national corporations have created huge wealth for a few by focusing too much on short-term profit and too little on long-term value… too much on complex trading schemes and stock buybacks, too little on investments in new businesses, jobs, and fair compensation.
Our political system is so paralyzed by gridlock and dysfunction that most Americans have lost confidence that anything can actually get done. And they've lost trust in the ability of both government and Big Business to change course.
Now, we can blame historic forces beyond our control for some of this, but the choices we've made as a nation, leaders and citizens alike, have also played a big role.
Our next President must work with Congress and every other willing partner across our entire country. And I will do just that - to turn the tide so these currents start working for us more than against us.
At our best, that's what Americans do. We're problem solvers, not deniers. We don't hide from change, we harness it.
But we can't do that if we go back to the top-down economic policies that failed us before.
Americans have come too far to see our progress ripped away.
Now, there may be some new voices in the presidential Republican choir, but they're all singing the same old song…
A song called “Yesterday.”
You know the one - all our troubles look as though they're here to stay… and we need a place to hide away… They believe in yesterday.
And you're lucky I didn't try singing that, too, I'll tell you!
These Republicans trip over themselves promising lower taxes for the wealthy and fewer rules for the biggest corporations without regard for how that will make income inequality even worse.
We've heard this tune before. And we know how it turns out.
Ask many of these candidates about climate change, one of the defining threats of our time, and they'll say: “I'm not a scientist.” Well, then, why don't they start listening to those who are?
They pledge to wipe out tough rules on Wall Street, rather than rein in the banks that are still too risky, courting future failures. In a case that can only be considered mass amnesia.
They want to take away health insurance from more than 16 million Americans without offering any credible alternative.
They shame and blame women, rather than respect our right to make our own reproductive health decisions.
They want to put immigrants, who work hard and pay taxes, at risk of deportation.
And they turn their backs on gay people who love each other.
Fundamentally, they reject what it takes to build an inclusive economy. It takes an inclusive society. What I once called “a village” that has a place for everyone.
Now, my values and a lifetime of experiences have given me a different vision for America.
I believe that success isn't measured by how much the wealthiest Americans have, but by how many children climb out of poverty…
How many start-ups and small businesses open and thrive…
How many young people go to college without drowning in debt…
How many people find a good job…
How many families get ahead and stay ahead.
I didn't learn this from politics. I learned it from my own family.
My mother taught me that everybody needs a chance and a champion. She knew what it was like not to have either one.
Her own parents abandoned her, and by 14 she was out on her own, working as a housemaid. Years later, when I was old enough to understand, I asked what kept her going.
You know what her answer was? Something very simple: Kindness from someone who believed she mattered.
The 1st grade teacher who saw she had nothing to eat at lunch and, without embarrassing her, brought extra food to share.
The woman whose house she cleaned letting her go to high school so long as her work got done. That was a bargain she leapt to accept.
And, because some people believed in her, she believed in me.
That's why I believe with all my heart in America and in the potential of every American.
To meet every challenge.
To be resilient… no matter what the world throws at you.
To solve the toughest problems.
I believe we can do all these things because I've seen it happen.
As a young girl, I signed up at my Methodist Church to babysit the children of Mexican farmworkers, while their parents worked in the fields on the weekends. And later, as a law student, I advocated for Congress to require better working and living conditions for farm workers whose children deserved better opportunities.
My first job out of law school was for the Children's Defense Fund. I walked door-to-door to find out how many children with disabilities couldn't go to school, and to help build the case for a law guaranteeing them access to education.
As a leader of the Legal Services Corporation, I defended the right of poor people to have a lawyer. And saw lives changed because an abusive marriage ended or an illegal eviction stopped.
In Arkansas, I supervised law students who represented clients in courts and prisons, organized scholarships for single parents going to college, led efforts for better schools and health care, and personally knew the people whose lives were improved.
As Senator, I had the honor of representing brave firefighters, police officers, EMTs, construction workers, and volunteers who ran toward danger on 9/11 and stayed there, becoming sick themselves.
It took years of effort, but Congress finally approved the health care they needed.
There are so many faces and stories that I carry with me of people who gave their best and then needed help themselves.
Just weeks ago, I met another person like that, a single mom juggling a job and classes at community college, while raising three kids.
She doesn't expect anything to come easy. But she did ask me: What more can be done so it isn't quite so hard for families like hers?
I want to be her champion and your champion.
If you'll give me the chance, I'll wage and win Four Fights for you.
The first is to make the economy work for everyday Americans, not just those at the top.
To make the middle class mean something again, with rising incomes and broader horizons. And to give the poor a chance to work their way into it.
The middle class needs more growth and more fairness. Growth and fairness go together. For lasting prosperity, you can't have one without the other.
Is this possible in today's world?
I believe it is or I wouldn't be standing here.
Do I think it will be easy? Of course not.
But, here's the good news: There are allies for change everywhere who know we can't stand by while inequality increases, wages stagnate, and the promise of America dims. We should welcome the support of all Americans who want to go forward together with us.
There are public officials who know Americans need a better deal.
Business leaders who want higher pay for employees, equal pay for women and no discrimination against the LGBT community either.
There are leaders of finance who want less short-term trading and more long-term investing.
There are union leaders who are investing their own pension funds in putting people to work to build tomorrow's economy. We need everyone to come to the table and work with us.
In the coming weeks, I'll propose specific policies to:
Reward businesses who invest in long term value rather than the quick buck – because that leads to higher growth for the economy, higher wages for workers, and yes, bigger profits, everybody will have a better time.
I will rewrite the tax code so it rewards hard work and investments here at home, not quick trades or stashing profits overseas.
I will give new incentives to companies that give their employees a fair share of the profits their hard work earns.
We will unleash a new generation of entrepreneurs and small business owners by providing tax relief, cutting red tape, and making it easier to get a small business loan.
We will restore America to the cutting edge of innovation, science, and research by increasing both public and private investments.
And we will make America the clean energy superpower of the 21st century.
Developing renewable power – wind, solar, advanced biofuels…
Building cleaner power plants, smarter electric grids, greener buildings…
Using additional fees and royalties from fossil fuel extraction to protect the environment…
And ease the transition for distressed communities to a more diverse and sustainable economic future from coal country to Indian country, from small towns in the Mississippi Delta to the Rio Grande Valley to our inner cities, we have to help our fellow Americans.
Now, this will create millions of jobs and countless new businesses, and enable America to lead the global fight against climate change.
We will also connect workers to their jobs and businesses. Customers will have a better chance to actually get where they need and get what they desire with roads, railways, bridges, airports, ports, and broadband brought up to global standards for the 21st century.
We will establish an infrastructure bank and sell bonds to pay for some of these improvements.
Now, building an economy for tomorrow also requires investing in our most important asset, our people, beginning with our youngest.
That's why I will propose that we make preschool and quality childcare available to every child in America.
And I want you to remember this, because to me, this is absolutely the most-compelling argument why we should do this. Research tells us how much early learning in the first five years of life can impact lifelong success. In fact, 80 percent of the brain is developed by age three.
One thing I've learned is that talent is universal – you can find it anywhere – but opportunity is not. Too many of our kids never have the chance to learn and thrive as they should and as we need them to.
Our country won't be competitive or fair if we don't help more families give their kids the best possible start in life.
So let's staff our primary and secondary schools with teachers who are second to none in the world, and receive the respect they deserve for sparking the love of learning in every child.
Let's make college affordable and available to all …and lift the crushing burden of student debt.
Let's provide lifelong learning for workers to gain or improve skills the economy requires, setting up many more Americans for success.
Now, the second fight is to strengthen America's families, because when our families are strong, America is strong.
And today's families face new and unique pressures. Parents need more support and flexibility to do their job at work and at home.
I believe you should have the right to earn paid sick days.
I believe you should receive your work schedule with enough notice to arrange childcare or take college courses to get ahead.
I believe you should look forward to retirement with confidence, not anxiety.
That you should have the peace of mind that your health care will be there when you need it, without breaking the bank.
I believe we should offer paid family leave so no one has to choose between keeping a paycheck and caring for a new baby or a sick relative.
And it is way past time to end the outrage of so many women still earning less than men on the job - and women of color often making even less.
This isn't a women's issue. It's a family issue. Just like raising the minimum wage is a family issue. Expanding childcare is a family issue. Declining marriage rates is a family issue. The unequal rates of incarceration is a family issue. Helping more people with an addiction or a mental health problem get help is a family issue.
In America, every family should feel like they belong.
So we should offer hard-working, law-abiding immigrant families a path to citizenship. Not second-class status.
And, we should ban discrimination against LGBT Americans and their families so they can live, learn, marry, and work just like everybody else.
You know, America's diversity, our openness, our devotion to human rights and freedom is what's drawn so many to our shores. What's inspired people all over the world. I know. I've seen it with my own eyes.
And these are also qualities that prepare us well for the demands of a world that is more interconnected than ever before.
So we have a third fight: to harness all of America's power, smarts, and values to maintain our leadership for peace, security, and prosperity.
No other country on Earth is better positioned to thrive in the 21st century. No other country is better equipped to meet traditional threats from countries like Russia, North Korea, and Iran – and to deal with the rise of new powers like China.
No other country is better prepared to meet emerging threats from cyber attacks, transnational terror networks like ISIS, and diseases that spread across oceans and continents.
As your President, I'll do whatever it takes to keep Americans safe.
And if you look over my left shoulder you can see the new World Trade Center soaring skyward.
As a Senator from New York, I dedicated myself to getting our city and state the help we needed to recover. And as a member of the Armed Services Committee, I worked to maintain the best-trained, best-equipped, strongest military, ready for today's threats and tomorrow's.
And when our brave men and women come home from war or finish their service, I'll see to it that they get not just the thanks of a grateful nation, but the care and benefits they've earned.
I've stood up to adversaries like Putin and reinforced allies like Israel. I was in the Situation Room on the day we got bin Laden.
But, I know - I know we have to be smart as well as strong.
Meeting today's global challenges requires every element of America's power, including skillful diplomacy, economic influence, and building partnerships to improve lives around the world with people, not just their governments.
There are a lot of trouble spots in the world, but there's a lot of good news out there too.
I believe the future holds far more opportunities than threats if we exercise creative and confident leadership that enables us to shape global events rather than be shaped by them.
And we all know that in order to be strong in the world, though, we first have to be strong at home. That's why we have to win the fourth fight – reforming our government and revitalizing our democracy so that it works for everyday Americans.
We have to stop the endless flow of secret, unaccountable money that is distorting our elections, corrupting our political process, and drowning out the voices of our people.
We need Justices on the Supreme Court who will protect every citizen's right to vote, rather than every corporation's right to buy elections.
If necessary, I will support a constitutional amendment to undo the Supreme Court's decision in Citizens United.
I want to make it easier for every citizen to vote. That's why I've proposed universal, automatic registration and expanded early voting.
I'll fight back against Republican efforts to disempower and disenfranchise young people, poor people, people with disabilities, and people of color.
What part of democracy are they afraid of?
No matter how easy we make it to vote, we still have to give Americans something worth voting for.
Government is never going to have all the answers – but it has to be smarter, simpler, more efficient, and a better partner.
That means access to advanced technology so government agencies can more effectively serve their customers, the American people.
We need expertise and innovation from the private sector to help cut waste and streamline services.
There's so much that works in America. For every problem we face, someone somewhere in America is solving it. Silicon Valley cracked the code on sharing and scaling a while ago. Many states are pioneering new ways to deliver services. I want to help Washington catch up.
To do that, we need a political system that produces results by solving problems that hold us back, not one overwhelmed by extreme partisanship and inflexibility.
Now, I'll always seek common ground with friend and opponent alike. But I'll also stand my ground when I must.
That's something I did as Senator and Secretary of State - whether it was working with Republicans to expand health care for children and for our National Guard, or improve our foster care and adoption system, or pass a treaty to reduce the number of Russian nuclear warheads that could threaten our cities - and it's something I will always do as your President.
We Americans may differ, bicker, stumble, and fall; but we are at our best when we pick each other up, when we have each other's back.
Like any family, our American family is strongest when we cherish what we have in common, and fight back against those who would drive us apart.
People all over the world have asked me: “How could you and President Obama work together after you fought so hard against each other in that long campaign?”
Now, that is an understandable question considering that in many places, if you lose an election you could get imprisoned or exiled – even killed – not hired as Secretary of State.
But President Obama asked me to serve, and I accepted because we both love our country. That's how we do it in America.
With that same spirit, together, we can win these four fights.
We can build an economy where hard work is rewarded.
We can strengthen our families.
We can defend our country and increase our opportunities all over the world.
And we can renew the promise of our democracy.
If we all do our part. In our families, in our businesses, unions, houses of worship, schools, and, yes, in the voting booth.
I want you to join me in this effort. Help me build this campaign and make it your own.
Talk to your friends, your family, your neighbors.
Text “JOIN” J-O-I-N to 4-7-2-4-6.
Go to hillaryclinton.com and sign up to make calls and knock on doors.
It's no secret that we're going up against some pretty powerful forces that will do and spend whatever it takes to advance a very different vision for America. But I've spent my life fighting for children, families, and our country. And I'm not stopping now.
You know, I know how hard this job is. I've seen it up close and personal.
All our Presidents come into office looking so vigorous. And then we watch their hair grow grayer and grayer.
Well, I may not be the youngest candidate in this race. But I will be the youngest woman President in the history of the United States!
And the first grandmother as well.
And one additional advantage: You're won't see my hair turn white in the White House. I've been coloring it for years!
So I'm looking forward to a great debate among Democrats, Republicans, and Independents. I'm not running to be a President only for those Americans who already agree with me. I want to be a President for all Americans.
And along the way, I'll just let you in on this little secret. I won't get everything right. Lord knows I've made my share of mistakes. Well, there's no shortage of people pointing them out!
And I certainly haven't won every battle I've fought. But leadership means perseverance and hard choices. You have to push through the setbacks and disappointments and keep at it.
I think you know by now that I've been called many things by many people - “quitter” is not one of them.
Like so much else in my life, I got this from my mother.
When I was a girl, she never let me back down from any bully or barrier. In her later years, Mom lived with us, and she was still teaching me the same lessons. I'd come home from a hard day at the Senate or the State Department, sit down with her at the small table in our breakfast nook, and just let everything pour out. And she would remind me why we keep fighting, even when the odds are long and the opposition is fierce.
I can still hear her saying: “Life's not about what happens to you, it's about what you do with what happens to you – so get back out there.”
She lived to be 92 years old, and I often think about all the battles she witnessed over the course of the last century - all the progress that was won because Americans refused to give up or back down.
She was born on June 4, 1919 - before women in America had the right to vote. But on that very day, after years of struggle, Congress passed the Constitutional Amendment that would change that forever.
The story of America is a story of hard-fought, hard-won progress. And it continues today. New chapters are being written by men and women who believe that all of us – not just some, but all – should have the chance to live up to our God-given potential.
Not only because we're a tolerant country, or a generous country, or a compassionate country, but because we're a better, stronger, more prosperous country when we harness the talent, hard work, and ingenuity of every single American.
I wish my mother could have been with us longer. I wish she could have seen Chelsea become a mother herself. I wish she could have met Charlotte.
I wish she could have seen the America we're going to build together.
An America, where if you do your part, you reap the rewards.
Where we don't leave anyone out, or anyone behind.
An America where a father can tell his daughter: yes, you can be anything you want to be. Even President of the United States.
Thank you all. God bless you. And may God bless America.
This Veterans Day is an opportunity to reaffirm that America's promise to our veterans is a sacred responsibility. Yet today we are failing to keep faith with our veterans. Long wait times for health care, crippling claims backlogs, little or no coordination between different government agencies responsible for serving veterans - these problems are serious, systemic and absolutely unacceptable. They need to be fixed, and fixed now.

First, we have to reform the VA to guarantee that our veterans have reliable and consistent access to the high-quality health care they've earned. We should transform the Veterans Health Administration from just a provider of services into a truly integrated health care system.

If we can maintain the most advanced military in the history of the world and fight wars across vast oceans and continents, we can figure out how to ensure that no veterans ever have to wait in line for weeks or months to get care, no matter where they live or what their needs are.

It starts with accountability, from the top leadership at the VA to midlevel managers to entry-level employees. As president, I will personally convene the secretary of veterans affairs and the secretary of defense in regular joint meetings and direct them to sync up their systems, coordinate efforts at every level, and enforce zero tolerance for the kind of abuses and delays we've seen.

The VA currently uses more than 100 electronic health record systems, so different sites can't talk to one another, much less with the Defense Department or other hospital systems. That doesn't make any sense, and it does a disservice to our veterans.

As we work to improve the VA, I will fight as long and as hard as it takes to prevent Republicans from privatizing it as part of a misguided ideological crusade.

I believe in giving veterans more choice in where and how they receive care and I think there should be more partnerships between the VA and private hospitals and community health care providers. But we can't put our vets at the mercy of private insurance companies without any care coordination, or leave them to fend for themselves with health care providers who have no expertise in the unique challenges facing veterans. Privatization is a betrayal, plain and simple.

Second, we need a VA for the 21st century, not the 20th, and that means serving an increasingly diverse community with new and different needs.

Women are making up a bigger and bigger percentage of the veterans community and the numbers will only grow in the years ahead. Yet too often, the VA system isn't equipped to serve women. Nearly a third of VA clinics don't have OBGYNs and, in some cases, women who lost limbs fighting for our country have found that the only prosthetics available are designed for men. That has to change.

As a senator on the Armed Services Committee during the height of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, I saw how the changing nature of warfare is affecting the men and women who serve, especially the scourge of improvised explosive devices, or IEDs. We have to build on and learn from the ground-breaking research pioneered by the VA and Defense departments into post-traumatic stress, traumatic brain injury and prosthetics so this new generation of veterans gets the care it needs.

We also have to make sure that veterans have access to mental health and substance abuse treatment. The number of veterans who commit suicide every day or who live homeless on the streets is absolutely heartbreaking. It's a national disgrace that demands action.

Third, we have to invest in our vets and make sure that the men and women who risk their lives for our country have access to a good education and good jobs when they come home. As president, I will work to guarantee the Post-9/11 GI Bill for future generations. I was proud to co-sponsor it in the Senate and I will resist any effort to reduce it or roll it back. I will also close what's known as the 90/10 loophole, which encourages for-profit schools to target service members, veterans and their families with false promises and deceptive marketing.

Fourth, we need to do more to support the families of service members and veterans. Service and sacrifice on the home front rarely gets the respect and recognition they deserve. The last decade has added only more strain on our military families, with long wars abroad and a tough economy here at home.  I'm committed to expanding access to child care for military families on- and off-base, stepping up to help military spouses manage the challenges of frequent moves and find good jobs that work for them, and making sure that family members get access to mental health and substance abuse services, just like those who serve.

All of this is just the beginning. Our veterans have done so much for us; now we need to do more for them.
