...Thank you so much.  That's so nice.  Isn't he a great guy.  He doesn't get a fair press; he doesn't get it.  It's just not fair.  And I have to tell you I'm here, and very strongly here, because I have great respect for Steve King and have great respect likewise for Citizens United, David and everybody, and tremendous resect for the Tea Party.  Also, also the people of Iowa.  They have something in common.  Hard-working people.  They want to work, they want to make the country great.  I love the people of Iowa.  So that's the way it is.  Very simple.  
With that said, our country is really headed in the wrong direction with a president who is doing an absolutely terrible job.  The world is collapsing around us, and many of the problems we've caused.  Our president is either grossly incompetent, a word that more and more people are using, and I think I was the first to use it, or he has a completely different agenda than you want to know about, which could be possible.  In any event, Washington is broken, and our country is in serious trouble and total disarray.  Very simple.  Politicians are all talk, no action.  They are all talk and no action.  And it's constant; it never ends.  
And I'm a conservative, actually very conservative, and I'm a Republican.  And I'm very disappointed by our Republican politicians.  Because they let the president get away with absolute murder.  You see always, oh we're going to do this, we're going to--.  Nothing ever happens; nothing ever happens.  
You look at Obamacare.  A total catastrophe and by the way it really kicks in in '16 and it is going to be a disaster.  People are closing up shops.  Doctors are quitting the business.  I have a friend of mine who's a doctor, a very good doctor, a very successful guy.  He said, I have more accountants than I have patients.  And he needs because it is so complicated and so terrible and he's never had that before and he's going to close up his business.  And he was very successful guy.  But it's happening more and more.
Look at Obamacare with a $5 billion website.  I have many websites, many, many websites.  They're all over the place.  But for $10, okay?
Now everything about Obamacare was a lie.  It was a filthy lie.  And when you think about it, lies, I mean are they prosecuted?  Does anyone do anything?  And what are the Republican politicians doing about it?  He lied about the doctor, he lied about every aspect.  You can keep your plan.  And you've all heard that hundreds of times.  That's like the real estate location, location.  I don't even say it anymore because everybody goes location, location.  But you have heard this about Obamacare.  
And it's disgraceful.  It's a big, fat, horrible lie.  Your deductibles are going through the roof.  You're not going to get--unless you're hit by an army tank, you're not going to get coverage.  And people that had plans that they loved, that they really loved, don't have those plans anymore.  So it's a real, real disaster.  And somebody has to repeal and replace Obamacare.  And they have to do it fast and not just talk about it.
Now, we have to build a fence.  And it's got to be a beauty.  Who can build better than Trump?  I build; it's what I do.  I build; I build nice fences, but I build great buildings.  Fences are easy, believe me.  I saw the other day on television people just walking across the border.  They're walking.  The military is standing there holding guns and people are just walking right in front, coming into our country.  It is so terrible.  It is so unfair.  It is so incompetent.  And we don't have the best coming in.  We have people that are criminals, we have people that are crooks.  You can certainly have terrorists.  You can certainly have Islamic terrorists.  You can have anything coming across the border.  We don't do anything about it.  So I would say that if I run and if I win, I would certainly start by building a very, very powerful border.

Again, the politicians talk about it and they do nothing about it.  Benghazi.  Oh, Benghazi, Benghazi.  Everything is Benghazi.  What happens?  Nothing.  
IRS, e-mails.  I get sued all the time, okay.  I run a big business.  You know I've always said it's very, very hard for a person who is very successful.  I have done so many deals.  Almost all of them have been tremendously successful.  You'll see that when I file my statements.  I mean you will see; you will be very proud of me, okay.  But I've always said, and I said it strongly, it's very hard for somebody that does tremendous numbers of deals to run for politics, run for political office, any office, let alone president.  Because you've done so much; you've beaten so many people; you've created so many--  Look, Obama, what did he do?  No deal.  He never did a deal.  He did one deal.  A house.  And if you did that house you'd be in jail right now, okay.  He got away with murder.  But I can tell you, e-mails.  IRS, the e-mails, thousands of them, they were lost; they were lost.  If you were in my world you would know that e-mails can't be lost; they can't be lost.  So why aren't our politicians finding out where those e-mails are?  
They talk about executive orders and they talk about immigration and they talk about oh well we have to stop the border; that's the end of it.  Believe me if I did something you would have a border that would be great.  But they talk about it.  And then you have a president that does an executive order.  Nobody even heard of an executive order.  He does it to let people come in and nobody does anything about executive orders.  Why didn't they go to court and ask for declaratory judgment--which is something that when you know somebody is going to go after you and when it's in writing, and he's been saying it for a long time; he said, I'm going to approve this and that--why didn't our Republicans go in and get a declaratory judgment from the courts because you could have started the process six months earlier.  Instead they have a weak lawsuit, that probably the time it's finished, I know so much about this, six, seven, eight years from now everyone's going to forget about it.  We'll be into a different mode, and our country will be further destroyed.  So we have to do something. 
Jobs.  China.  I mean I've made so much money fighting against the Chinese.  One of the best deals I ever did was against the Chinese, and they respect me for it.  And I know them.  And they say, we can't believe what we're getting away with.  We can't believe how stupid your leaders are.  They tell me that.  Now they don't know I'm going to go and make a speech about it, but why not.  But they tell me that.  
And by the way, especially for the folks here that sell so much--goods, I mean the goods you sell are incredible; I don't know if you've been watching what's happening with the devaluations of so many countries.  The Euro, China is going crazy with the devaluation.  I never thought that they'd have the guts to do what they're doing.  They are devaluing down to nothing.  And what it's going to do is make it impossible for you to sell your product; it's going make it impossible for you to compete.  And they're getting away with it.  And they wouldn't have even done it two years ago, but now they feel we're so weak and we have so many different problems all over the world that they can do it.  But you watch this devaluation of all of it.  I mean the Euro, China, Mexico; everybody is devaluing.  And when you hear the dollar is getting stronger, it sounds good.  You know it's one of those things, sounds good.  Be very careful.  Be very careful.  Because we're just going to lose more and more business to these foreign countries that really know what they are doing.  They have it set.  Don't forget another thing.  China became the number one economic power a year ago.  That was unthinkable; to think that that was going to happen.  It was absolutely unthinkable.  So it happened and it's very, very sad.  
Now we spent $2 trillion in Iraq.  We got nothing.  They don't even respect us; they don't even care about us.  Until they started getting their ass kicked, and call, oh please come back and help us.  We want you out; then all of the sudden a new group forms, ISIS.  By the way, you know how they formed.  They took the oil.  And for those of you that know and love Donald Trump--there are some of you--have I been saying for four years, keep the oil.  So now ISIS has the oil.  And the stuff that ISIS doesn't have, Iran is going to take.  So we get nothing.  We have $2 trillion and we have thousands of lives lost, thousands, and we have, what do we have.  I mean I walk down the streets of New York and I see so many wounded warriors, incredible people.  And we have to help those people, we have to help our vets, we have to help our military, we have to build our military.  But, and we have to do it fast; we have to do it fast.  We have incompetent people.  They put people in charge that have no clue what they're doing.  It needs money.  
We have to make our country rich again so we do that, so we can save Social Security.  'Cause I'm not a cutter; I'll probably be the only Republican that does not want to cut Social Security.  I'm not a cutter of Social Security; I want to make the country rich so that Social Security can be afforded, and Medicare and Medicaid.  Get rid of the waste, get rid of the fraud, but you deserve your Social Security; you've been paying your Security.  And like, I like Congressman Ryan, I like a lot of the people that are talking about you know cutting Social Security, and by the way the Democrats are eating your lunch on this issue.  It's an issue that you're not going to win; you've got to make the country rich again and strong again so that you can afford it, and so you can afford military, and all of the other things.  
Now, we have a game changer now, and the game changer is nuclear weapons.  We really do have to get strong, and we have to get strong fast.  We can't let Iran get a nuclear weapon.  We can't do it.  Can't do it.  We cannot let that happen.  You know in the old days, I would have said 100 years ago, 50 years ago, 30 years ago, pull out and let them fight each other.  
Here we are in Syria.  We're fighting people that want to overturn Syria.  Think of this.  We're fighting ISIS, but ISIS wants to overturn the government.  Maybe you let them fight for a little while and then you take out the one that remains, okay.  But think of it; think of it.  ISIS is fighting them and we are bombing the hell out of them, but we want Syria to fall.  There are so many things; there are so many things.  
But the one game changer that we have to be careful with, that we never really had to think about  too much before, other than a cetain number of years ago, is the nuclear.  Nuclear today, it's not like soldiers in uniforms shooting rifles.  You can take out the East Coast of this country, you can take out large sections of the Midwest, you can take out things that were unthinkable.  The power.  And we have to be in a position where that never, ever, ever, every happens.  We've never had this before.  
We have a situation in Afghanistan; we're spending tremendous amounts of money there.  We're trying to do the right thing.  We have leadership, again--no leadership respects us.  You know, leadership of other places never respect stupid people, okay, that's one thing you're going to find.  The same thing is happening there.  And I never knew that Afghanistan until a year ago or so, Afghanistan has tremendous wealth in minerals, different, not the oil, but minerals.  And we're fighting here, and on the other side of the mountain China is taking out all the minerals.  They're taking it out.  Trillion of dollars and millions of dollars of minerals.  So we're fighting here and they are taking it out, looking at us and saying thank you very much sucker.  It's really, really crazy.

So we have to rebuild quickly our infrastructure of this country.  If we don't--  The other day in Ohio a bridge collapsed.  Bridges are collapsing all over the country.  The reports on bridges and the like are unbelievable, what's happening with our infrastructure.
I go to Saudi Arabia, I go to Dubai; I am doing big jobs in Dubai.  I go to various different places.  I go to China.  They are building a bridge on every corner.  They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge like small time stuff.  They're building the most incredible things you have ever seen.  They are building airports in Qatar--which they like to say "cutter" but I've always said "qatar" so I'll keep it "qatar" what the hell.  But they're building, they're building an airport and have just completed an airport the likes of which you have never seen, in Dubai an airport the likes of which you have never seen.  And then I come back to LaGuardia where the runways have potholes.  The place is falling apart.  You go into the main terminal and they have a terraza floor that's so old it's falling apart.  And they have a hole in it, and they replace it with asphalt.  So you have a white terraza floor and they put asphalt all over the place.  This is inside, not outside.  And I just left Dubai where they have the most incredible thing you've ever seen.  In fact my pilot said oh Mr. Trump this is such an honor.  I said it's not an honor; they're just smart.  But you look at LAX, and you look at Kennedy Airport, and you look at our airports generally, you look at our roadways where they're crumbling.  
You look at all of the things that are bad--  I'll give you an example. And this isn't part of what I was going to say, but I ride down the highways and somebody makes those guard rails.  You know the guard rails.  The ones that sort of go like this [demonstrates with hand] that are always  bent, rusted and horrible.  Did you ever see more than like 20 feet which isn't corroded, or bent or the heat, if it gets too hot, it just crushes.  Now they've been selling this thing for 25 years.  Why doesn't someone stop them and get something that works.  Because they don't know; they don't know what's happening.  Somebody made a lot of money on that.  They don't know what is happening. 
So we have to make our country great again.  We have to rebuild our country.  And we have a long way to go.  We are just in such serious trouble because we owe so much money.  Now we owe it to the Chinese, a lot of it.  We owe it to other countries.  They're the ones that hold the debt.  And then we give them money.  We have countries that we owe money to and yet we're giving them subsidies.  I just ordered thousands of television sets and between LG and Samsung and I mean you know--  No American company comes to see and comes to bid.  It's South Korea, and whenever they have a problem we send the battleships, we send the destroyers, we send our airplanes, we're going to protect them.  What are we doing; why aren't they paying us?  Why aren't they paying us; what are we doing?  I order thousands and thousands of sets all the time, for some reason it's South Korea.  You know whether it's China, South Korea, but in this case televisions, South Korea.  Why aren't they doing something to justify what is going on?  
Now, we have a very important election coming up.  We have a presidential election coming up. And we have some good people.  Nobody like Trump of course, but these are minor details.  We have some good people.
It' can't be Mitt because Mitt ran and failed.  He failed.  I mean I liked him.  Look--like him, dislike him--the 47% statement that he made, that's not going away.  The Romneycare from Massachusetts, that's not going away.  What do you think they're going to say oh we won't bring that up this time.  It's not fair because it was a long t--  That doesn't work.  But more importantly, he choked.  Something happened to him in the last month.  He had that election won.  And let me tell you something.  That election, sort of like a dealmaker that can't close the deal.  I know many of those guys; they get it up to the one-yard line, they go ah, ah I can't close it.  Or a golfer that can't sink the three-footer to win the tournament.  And there are many of them.  Most people are like that; I mean most people are like that.  You can't give somebody another chance, 'cause actually I think this election is tougher to win than beating a failed president.  I really do.  I think beating Obama would have been a much easier one than the one that's coming up, which is sad to say but true.  So you can't have Romney.  He choked.
You can't have Bush.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now I made that statement very strongly, and now every one says the last thing--  You know they copied it.  I'll be accused of copying the statement; that's the bad thing.  But I said it.  I was the one that said it first, and I mean it.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now, he's totally in favor of Common Core; that's a disaster, that's bad, it should be local and all of that.  But he's totally in favor of Common Core.  He's very, very weak on immigration.  Don't forget--remember his statement--they come for love.  I say, what?  Come for love?  You've got these people coming, half of them are criminals.  They're coming for love?  They're coming for a lot of other reasons, and it's not love.  And when he runs, you got to remember his brother really gave us Obama.  I was never a big fan, but his brother gave us Obama.  'Cause Abraham Lincoln coming home back from the dead could not have won the election because it was going so badly and the economy was just absolutely in shambles that last couple of months.  And then he appointed Justice Roberts.  And Jeb wanted Justice Roberts.  And Justice Roberts basically approved Obamacare in a shocking decision that nobody believes.  So you can't have Jeb Bush.  And he's going to lose aside from that; he's not going to win.  So Mitt and--you just can't have those two.  That's it.  That's it.  It's so simple.
So just in summing up and I just wrote a few of these little points down because it's very important.  And I watch these teleprompters, and by the way I think any president candidate that runs should not be allowed to use a teleprompter, because we got one that uses teleprompters.  And people say, oh he is so quick on his feet.  He is reading it.  I mean give me a break.  Everything is read.  You don't really test the mettle of a man or a woman unless they can get up on stage and talk.  And that's what we ended up getting--the king of teleprompters.  But, so when I look at these things here I say you know what, it's so much easier, it would be so nice, just bah, pa, bah, pa, bah, bing, bing, bing.  No problems, get off stage, everybody falls asleep and that's the end of that.  But we have to do something about these teleprompters.  
But in looking at these situations--  I built an incredible company.  And you'll see that.  An incredible company; a wonderful company.  I employ thousands of people and I love doing what I'm doing.  And in a certain way, I wish I weren't doing this, but our country is in such trouble and would be so easy to fix.  We have such great potential.
So if I run for president and if I win, I would totally succeed in: 
creating jobs; 
defeating ISIS and stopping the Islamic terrorists--and you have to do that;
reducing the budget deficit--so important, have to do it;
securing our Southern border--and I mean seriously securing it;
stopping nuclear weapons in Iran and elsewhere; 
saving Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, without cutting it down to the bone because it's not fair to people that have been paying for their whole lives and other people and it's not fair to future people coming up, and we can do it;
repealing Obamacare and replacing it with something far better for the people, and far less expensive, both for the people and for the country.  And believe me there are plans that are so much better for everybody.  And everybody can be covered.  I'm not saying leave 50-percent of the people out.  Everybody can be c-- This plan is just a basic disaster.  Nobody knows.  As bad as the website was, this is how bad the plan itself is;
fixing our country's infrastructure, our bridges, our schools, our highways, our airports.  And that, I can tell you, nobody is close to Trump.  I just got the best hotel in North America.  I'm building, which is sort of interesting, think of this one.  I'm building one of the great hotels of the world on Pennsylvania Avenue, right opposite the White House, between the White House and Congress.  Right on Penn.--  The  Old Post Office site, and I got it from Obama.  Do you believe that?  And everybody wanted it.  So, I can't believe it myself.  But it's going to be fantastic;  
and so many other things. 
I know what needs to be done to make America great again.  We can make this country great again.  The potential is enormous.  And I am serious thinking of running for president because I can do the job.  
Thank you all very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much, everybody.  Thank you.  Beautiful.  Thank you.Wow. Whoa. That is some group of people. Thousands. So nice, thank you very much. That's really nice. Thank you. It's great to be at Trump Tower. It's great to be in a wonderful city, New York. And it's an honor to have everybody here. This is beyond anybody's expectations. There's been no crowd like this.

And, I can tell, some of the candidates, they went in. They didn't know the air-conditioner didn't work. They sweated like dogs.

They didn't know the room was too big, because they didn't have anybody there. How are they going to beat ISIS? I don't think it's gonna happen.

Our country is in serious trouble. We don't have victories anymore. We used to have victories, but we don't have them. When was the last time anybody saw us beating, let's say, China in a trade deal? They kill us. I beat China all the time. All the time.

When did we beat Japan at anything? They send their cars over by the millions, and what do we do? When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo? It doesn't exist, folks. They beat us all the time.

When do we beat Mexico at the border? They're laughing at us, at our stupidity. And now they are beating us economically. They are not our friend, believe me. But they're killing us economically.

The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else's problems.

Thank you. It's true, and these are the best and the finest. When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best. They're not sending you. They're not sending you. They're sending people that have lots of problems, and they're bringing those problems with us. They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.

But I speak to border guards and they tell us what we're getting. And it only makes common sense. It only makes common sense. They're sending us not the right people.

It's coming from more than Mexico. It's coming from all over South and Latin America, and it's coming probably - probably - from the Middle East. But we don't know. Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we don't know what's happening. And it's got to stop and it's got to stop fast.

Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East. They've become rich. I'm in competition with them.

They just built a hotel in Syria. Can you believe this? They built a hotel. When I have to build a hotel, I pay interest. They don't have to pay interest, because they took the oil that, when we left Iraq, I said we should've taken.

So now ISIS has the oil, and what they don't have, Iran has. And in 19 - and I will tell you this, and I said it very strongly, years ago, I said - and I love the military, and I want to have the strongest military that we've ever had, and we need it more now than ever. But I said, "Don't hit Iraq," because you're going to totally destabilize the Middle East. Iran is going to take over the Middle East, Iran and somebody else will get the oil, and it turned out that Iran is now taking over Iraq. Think of it. Iran is taking over Iraq, and they're taking it over big league.

We spent $2 trillion in Iraq, $2 trillion. We lost thousands of lives, thousands in Iraq. We have wounded soldiers, who I love, I love - they're great - all over the place, thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers.

And we have nothing. We can't even go there. We have nothing. And every time we give Iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air, they leave it.

Last week, I read 2,300 Humvees - these are big vehicles - were left behind for the enemy. 2,000? You would say maybe two, maybe four? 2,300 sophisticated vehicles, they ran, and the enemy took them.

You're right.

Last quarter, it was just announced our gross domestic product - a sign of strength, right? But not for us. It was below zero. Whoever heard of this? It's never below zero.

Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978. But think of it, GDP below zero, horrible labor participation rate.

And our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent. Don't believe the 5.6. Don't believe it.

That's right. A lot of people up there can't get jobs. They can't get jobs, because there are no jobs, because China has our jobs and Mexico has our jobs. They all have jobs.

But the real number, the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even 21 percent, and nobody talks about it, because it's a statistic that's full of nonsense.

Our enemies are getting stronger and stronger by the way, and we as a country are getting weaker. Even our nuclear arsenal doesn't work.

It came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old. They don't know if it worked. And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television, because boy, does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say, "That is a group of people, and that is a nation that truly has no clue. They don't know what they're doing. They don't know what they're doing."

We have a disaster called the big lie: Obamacare. Obamacare.

Yesterday, it came out that costs are going for people up 29, 39, 49, and even 55 percent, and deductibles are through the roof. You have to be hit by a tractor, literally, a tractor, to use it, because the deductibles are so high, it's virtually useless. It's virtually useless. It is a disaster.TRUMP: And remember the $5 billion Web site? $5 billion we spent on a Web site, and to this day it doesn't work. A $5 billion Web site.

I have so many Web sites, I have them all over the place. I hire people, they do a Web site. It costs me $3. $5 billion Web site.

Well, you need somebody, because politicians are all talk, no action. Nothing's gonna get done. They will not bring us - believe me - to the promised land. They will not.

As an example, I've been on the circuit making speeches, and I hear my fellow Republicans. And they're wonderful people. I like them. They all want me to support them. They don't know how to bring it about. They come up to my office. I'm meeting with three of them in the next week. And they don't know - "Are you running? Are you not running? Could we have your support? What do we do? How do we do it?"

I like them. And I hear their speeches. And they don't talk jobs and they don't talk China. When was the last time you heard China is killing us? They're devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldn't believe. It makes it impossible for our companies to compete, impossible. They're killing us.

But you don't hear that from anybody else. You don't hear it from anybody else. And I watch the speeches.

Thank you.

I watch the speeches of these people, and they say the sun will rise, the moon will set, all sorts of wonderful things will happen. And people are saying, "What's going on? I just want a job. Just get me a job. I don't need the rhetoric. I want a job."

And that's what's happening. And it's going to get worse, because remember, Obamacare really kicks in in '16, 2016. Obama is going to be out playing golf. He might be on one of my courses. I would invite him, I actually would say. I have the best courses in the world, so I'd say, you what, if he wants to - I have one right next to the White House, right on the Potomac. If he'd like to play, that's fine.

In fact, I'd love him to leave early and play, that would be a very good thing.

But Obamacare kicks in in 2016. Really big league. It is going to be amazingly destructive. Doctors are quitting. I have a friend who's a doctor, and he said to me the other day, "Donald, I never saw anything like it. I have more accountants than I have nurses. It's a disaster. My patients are beside themselves. They had a plan that was good. They have no plan now."

We have to repeal Obamacare, and it can be - and - and it can be replaced with something much better for everybody. Let it be for everybody. But much better and much less expensive for people and for the government. And we can do it.

So I've watched the politicians. I've dealt with them all my life. If you can't make a good deal with a politician, then there's something wrong with you. You're certainly not very good. And that's what we have= representing us. They will never make America great again. They don't even have a chance. They're controlled fully - they're controlled fully by the lobbyists, by the donors, and by the special interests, fully.

Yes, they control them. Hey, I have lobbyists. I have to tell you. I have lobbyists that can produce anything for me. They're great. But you know what? it won't happen. It won't happen. Because we have to stop doing things for some people, but for this country, it's destroying our country. We have to stop, and it has to stop now.

Now, our country needs - our country needs a truly great leader, and we need a truly great leader now. We need a leader that wrote "The Art of the Deal."

We need a leader that can bring back our jobs, can bring back our manufacturing, can bring back our military, can take care of our vets. Our vets have been abandoned.

And we also need a cheerleader.

You know, when President Obama was elected, I said, "Well, the one thing, I think he'll do well. I think he'll be a great cheerleader for the country. I think he'd be a great spirit."

He was vibrant. He was young. I really thought that he would be a great cheerleader.

He's not a leader. That's true. You're right about that.

But he wasn't a cheerleader. He's actually a negative force. He's been a negative force. He wasn't a cheerleader; he was the opposite.

We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again. It's not great again.

We need - we need somebody - we need somebody that literally will take this country and make it great again. We can do that.

And, I will tell you, I love my life. I have a wonderful family. They're saying, "Dad, you're going to do something that's going to be so tough."

You know, all of my life, I've heard that a truly successful person, a really, really successful person and even modestly successful cannot run for public office. Just can't happen. And yet that's the kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again.

So ladies and gentlemen...

I am officially running...

... for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again.

It can happen. Our country has tremendous potential. We have tremendous people.

We have people that aren't working. We have people that have no incentive to work. But they're going to have incentive to work, because the greatest social program is a job. And they'll be proud, and they'll love it, and they'll make much more than they would've ever made, and they'll be - they'll be doing so well, and we're going to be thriving as a country, thriving. It can happen.

I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I tell you that.

I'll bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan, from so many places. I'll bring back our jobs, and I'll bring back our money.

Right now, think of this: We owe China $1.3 trillion. We owe Japan more than that. So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, and then they loan us back the money, and we pay them in interest, and then the dollar goes up so their deal's even better.

How stupid are our leaders? How stupid are these politicians to allow this to happen? How stupid are they?

I'm going to tell you - thank you. I'm going to tell you a couple of stories about trade, because I'm totally against the trade bill for a number of reasons.

Number one, the people negotiating don't have a clue. Our president doesn't have a clue. He's a bad negotiator.

He's the one that did Bergdahl. We get Bergdahl, they get five killer terrorists that everybody wanted over there.

We get Bergdahl. We get a traitor. We get a no-good traitor, and they get the five people that they wanted for years, and those people are now back on the battlefield trying to kill us. That's the negotiator we have.

Take a look at the deal he's making with Iran. He makes that deal, Israel maybe won't exist very long. It's a disaster, and we have to protect Israel. But...

So we need people - I'm a free trader. But the problem with free trade is you need really talented people to negotiate for you. If you don't have talented people, if you don't have great leadership, if you don't have people that know business, not just a political hack that got the job because he made a contribution to a campaign, which is the way all jobs, just about, are gotten, free trade terrible.

Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people, but we have people that are stupid. We have people that aren't smart. And we have people that are controlled by special interests. And it's just not going to work.

So, here's a couple of stories happened recently. A friend of mine is a great manufacturer. And, you know, China comes over and they dump all their stuff, and I buy it. I buy it, because, frankly, I have an obligation to buy it, because they devalue their currency so brilliantly, they just did it recently, and nobody thought they could do it again.

But with all our problems with Russia, with all our problems with everything - everything, they got away with it again. And it's impossible for our people here to compete.

So I want to tell you this story. A friend of mine who's a great manufacturer, calls me up a few weeks ago. He's very upset. I said, "What's your problem?"

He said, "You know, I make great product."

And I said, "I know. I know that because I buy the product."

He said, "I can't get it into China. They won't accept it. I sent a boat over and they actually sent it back. They talked about environmental, they talked about all sorts of crap that had nothing to do with it."

I said, "Oh, wait a minute, that's terrible. Does anyone know this?"

He said, "Yeah, they do it all the time with other people."

I said, "They send it back?"

"Yeah. So I finally got it over there and they charged me a big tariff. They're not supposed to be doing that. I told them."

Now, they do charge you tariff on trucks, when we send trucks and other things over there.

Ask Boeing BA +0.27%. They wanted Boeing's secrets. They wanted their patents and all their secrets before they agreed to buy planes from Boeing.

Hey, I'm not saying they're stupid. I like China. I sell apartments for - I just sold an apartment for $15 million to somebody from China. Am I supposed to dislike them? I own a big chunk of the Bank of America BAC +2.23% Building at 1290 Avenue of the Americas, that I got from China in a war. Very valuable.

I love China. The biggest bank in the world is from China. You know where their United States headquarters is located? In this building, in Trump Tower. I love China. People say, "Oh, you don't like China?"

No, I love them. But their leaders are much smarter than our leaders, and we can't sustain ourself with that. There's too much - it's like - it's like take the New England Patriots and Tom Brady and have them play your high school football team. That's the difference between China's leaders and our leaders.

They are ripping us. We are rebuilding China. We're rebuilding many countries. China, you go there now, roads, bridges, schools, you never saw anything like it. They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge look like small potatoes. And they're all over the place.

We have all the cards, but we don't know how to use them. We don't even know that we have the cards, because our leaders don't understand the game. We could turn off that spigot by charging them tax until they behave properly.

Now they're going militarily. They're building a military island in the middle of the South China sea. A military island. Now, our country could never do that because we'd have to get environmental clearance, and the environmentalist wouldn't let our country - we would never build in an ocean. They built it in about one year, this massive military port.

They're building up their military to a point that is very scary. You have a problem with ISIS. You have a bigger problem with China.

And, in my opinion, the new China, believe it or not, in terms of trade, is Mexico.

So this man tells me about the manufacturing. I say, "That's a terrible story. I hate to hear it."

But I have another one, Ford.

So Mexico takes a company, a car company that was going to build in Tennessee, rips it out. Everybody thought the deal was dead. Reported it in the Wall Street Journal recently. Everybody thought it was a done deal. It's going in and that's going to be it, going into Tennessee. Great state, great people.TRUMP: All of a sudden, at the last moment, this big car manufacturer, foreign, announces they're not going to Tennessee. They're gonna spend their $1 billion in Mexico instead. Not good.

Now, Ford announces a few weeks ago that Ford is going to build a $2.5 billion car and truck and parts manufacturing plant in Mexico. $2.5 billion, it's going to be one of the largest in the world. Ford. Good company.

So I announced that I'm running for president. I would...

... one of the early things I would do, probably before I even got in - and I wouldn't even use - you know, I have - I know the smartest negotiators in the world. I know the good ones. I know the bad ones. I know the overrated ones.

You get a lot of them that are overrated. They're not good. They think they are. They get good stories, because the newspapers get buffaloed (ph). But they're not good.

But I know the negotiators in the world, and I put them one for each country. Believe me, folks. We will do very, very well, very, very well.

But I wouldn't even waste my time with this one. I would call up the head of Ford, who I know. If I was president, I'd say, "Congratulations. I understand that you're building a nice $2.5 billion car factory in Mexico and that you're going to take your cars and sell them to the United States zero tax, just flow them across the border."

And you say to yourself, "How does that help us," right? "How does that help us? Where is that good"? It's not.

So I would say, "Congratulations. That's the good news. Let me give you the bad news. Every car and every truck and every part manufactured in this plant that comes across the border, we're going to charge you a 35-percent tax, and that tax is going to be paid simultaneously with the transaction, and that's it.

Now, here's what is going to happen. If it's not me in the position, it's one of these politicians that we're running against, you know, the 400 people that we're (inaudible). And here's what's going to happen. They're not so stupid. They know it's not a good thing, and they may even be upset by it. But then they're going to get a call from the donors or probably from the lobbyist for Ford and say, "You can't do that to Ford, because Ford takes care of me and I take care of you, and you can't do that to Ford."

And guess what? No problem. They're going to build in Mexico. They're going to take away thousands of jobs. It's very bad for us.

So under President Trump, here's what would happen:

The head of Ford will call me back, I would say within an hour after I told them the bad news. But it could be he'd want to be cool, and he'll wait until the next day. You know, they want to be a little cool.

And he'll say, "Please, please, please." He'll beg for a little while, and I'll say, "No interest." Then he'll call all sorts of political people, and I'll say, "Sorry, fellas. No interest," because I don't need anybody's money. It's nice. I don't need anybody's money.

I'm using my own money. I'm not using the lobbyists. I'm not using donors. I don't care. I'm really rich. I (inaudible).

And by the way, I'm not even saying that in a - that's the kind of mindset, that's the kind of thinking you need for this country.

So - because we got to make the country rich.

It sounds crass. Somebody said, "Oh, that's crass." It's not crass.

We got $18 trillion in debt. We got nothing but problems.

We got a military that needs equipment all over the place. We got nuclear weapons that are obsolete.

We've got nothing. We've got Social Security that's going to be destroyed if somebody like me doesn't bring money into the country. All these other people want to cut the hell out of it. I'm not going to cut it at all; I'm going to bring money in, and we're going to save it.

But here's what's going to happen:

After I'm called by 30 friends of mine who contributed to different campaigns, after I'm called by all of the special interests and by the - the donors and by the lobbyists - and they have zero chance at convincing me, zero - I'll get a call the next day from the head of Ford. He'll say. "Please reconsider," I'll say no.

He'll say, "Mr. President, we've decided to move the plant back to the United States, and we're not going to build it in Mexico." That's it. They have no choice. They have no choice.

There are hundreds of things like that. I'll give you another example.TRUMP: Saudi Arabia, they make $1 billion a day. $1 billion a day. I love the Saudis. Many are in this building. They make a billion dollars a day. Whenever they have problems, we send over the ships. We say "we're gonna protect." What are we doing? They've got nothing but money.

If the right person asked them, they'd pay a fortune. They wouldn't be there except for us.

And believe me, you look at the border with Yemen. You remember Obama a year ago, Yemen was a great victory. Two weeks later, the place was blown up. Everybody got out - and they kept our equipment.

They always keep our equipment. We ought to send used equipment, right? They always keep our equipment. We ought to send some real junk, because, frankly, it would be - we ought to send our surplus. We're always losing this gorgeous brand-new stuff.

But look at that border with Saudi Arabia. Do you really think that these people are interested in Yemen? Saudi Arabia without us is gone. They;re gone.

And I'm the one that made all of the right predictions about Iraq. You know, all of these politicians that I'm running against now - it's so nice to say I'm running as opposed to if I run, if I run. I'm running.

But all of these politicians that I'm running against now, they're trying to disassociate. I mean, you looked at Bush, it took him five days to answer the question on Iraq. He couldn't answer the question. He didn't know. I said, "Is he intelligent?"

Then I looked at Rubio. He was unable to answer the question, is Iraq a good thing or bad thing? He didn't know. He couldn't answer the question.

How are these people gonna lead us? How are we gonna - how are we gonna go back and make it great again? We can't. They don't have a clue. They can't lead us. They can't. They can't even answer simple questions. It was terrible.

But Saudi Arabia is in big, big trouble. Now, thanks to fracking and other things, the oil is all over the place. And I used to say it, there are ships at sea, and this was during the worst crisis, that were loaded up with oil, and the cartel kept the price up, because, again, they were smarter than our leaders. They were smarter than our leaders.

There is so much wealth out there that can make our country so rich again, and therefore make it great again. Because we need money. We're dying. We're dying. We need money. We have to do it. And we need the right people.

So Ford will come back. They'll all come back. And I will say this, this is going to be an election, in my opinion, that's based on competence.

Somebody said - thank you, darlin'.

Somebody said to me the other day, a reporter, a very nice reporter, "But, Mr. Trump, you're not a nice person."

That's true. But actually I am. I think I am a nice person. People that know me, like me. Does my family like me? I think so, right. Look at my family. I'm proud of my family.

By the way, speaking of my family, Melania, Barron, Kai, Donnie, Don, Vanessa, Tiffany, Evanka did a great job. Did she do a great job?

Great. Jared (ph), Laura and Eric, I'm very proud of my family. They're a great family.

So the reporter said to me the other day, "But, Mr. Trump, you're not a nice person. How can you get people to vote for you?"

I said, "I don't know." I said, "I think that number one, I am a nice person. I give a lot of money away to charities and other things. I think I'm actually a very nice person."

But, I said, "This is going to be an election that's based on competence, because people are tired of these nice people. And they're tired of being ripped off by everybody in the world. And they're tired of spending more money on education than any nation in the world per capita, than any nation in the world, and we are 26th in the world, 25 countries are better than us in education. And some of them are like third world countries. But we're becoming a third word country, because of our infrastructure, our airports, our roads, everything. So one of the things I did, and I said, you know what I'll do. I'll do it. Because a lot of people said, "He'll never run. Number one, he won't want to give up his lifestyle."

They're right about that, but I'm doing it.

Number two, I'm a private company, so nobody knows what I'm worth. And the one thing is that when you run, you have to announce and certify to all sorts of governmental authorities your net worth.

So I said, "That's OK." I'm proud of my net worth. I've done an amazing job.

I started off - thank you - I started off in a small office with my father in Brooklyn and Queens, and my father said - and I love my father. I learned so much. He was a great negotiator. I learned so much just sitting at his feet playing with blocks listening to him negotiate with subcontractors. But I learned a lot.

But he used to say, "Donald, don't go into Manhattan. That's the big leagues. We don't know anything about that. Don't do it."

I said, "I gotta go into Manhattan. I gotta build those big buildings. I gotta do it, Dad. I've gotta do it."

And after four or five years in Brooklyn, I ventured into Manhattan and did a lot of great deals - the Grand Hyatt Hotel. I was responsible for the convention center on the west side. I did a lot of great deals, and I did them early and young. And now I'm building all over the world, and I love what I'm doing.

But they all said, a lot of the pundits on television, "Well, Donald will never run, and one of the main reasons is he's private and he's probably not as successful as everybody thinks."

So I said to myself, you know, nobody's ever going to know unless I run, because I'm really proud of my success. I really am.

I've employed - I've employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. That means medical. That means education. That means everything.

So a large accounting firm and my accountants have been working for months, because it's big and complex, and they've put together a statement, a financial statement, just a summary. But everything will be filed eventually with the government, and we don't extensions or anything. We'll be filing it right on time. We don't need anything.

And it was even reported incorrectly yesterday, because they said, "He had assets of $9 billion." So I said (ph), "No, that's the wrong number. That's the wrong number. Not assets."

So they put together this. And before I say it, I have to say this. I made it the old-fashioned way. It's real estate. You know, it's real estate.

It's labor, and it's unions good and some bad and lots of people that aren't in unions, and it's all over the place and building all over the world.

And I have assets - big accounting firm, one of the most highly respected - 9 billion 240 million dollars.

And I have liabilities of about $500 million (ph). That's long-term debt, very low interest rates.

In fact, one of the big banks came to me and said, "Donald, you don't have enough borrowings. Could we loan you $4 billion"? I said, "I don't need it. I don't want it. And I've been there. I don't want it."

But in two seconds, they give me whatever I wanted. So I have a total net worth, and now with the increase, it'll be well-over $10 billion. But here, a total net worth of - net worth, not assets, not - a net worth, after all debt, after all expenses, the greatest assets - Trump Tower, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, Bank of America building in San Francisco, 40 Wall Street, sometimes referred to as the Trump building right opposite the New York - many other places all over the world.

So the total is $8,737,540,00.

Now I'm not doing that...

I'm not doing that to brag, because you know what? I don't have to brag. I don't have to, believe it or not.

I'm doing that to say that that's the kind of thinking our country needs. We need that thinking. We have the opposite thinking.

We have losers. We have losers. We have people that don't have it. We have people that are morally corrupt. We have people that are selling this country down the drain.

So I put together this statement, and the only reason I'm telling you about it today is because we really do have to get going, because if we have another three or four years - you know, we're at $8 trillion now. We're soon going to be at $20 trillion.TRUMP: According to the economists - who I'm not big believers in, but, nevertheless, this is what they're saying - that $24 trillion - we're very close - that's the point of no return. $24 trillion. We will be there soon. That's when we become Greece. That's when we become a country that's unsalvageable. And we're gonna be there very soon. We're gonna be there very soon.

So, just to sum up, I would do various things very quickly. I would repeal and replace the big lie, Obamacare.

I would build a great wall, and nobody builds walls better than me, believe me, and I'll build them very inexpensively, I will build a great, great wall on our southern border. And I will have Mexico pay for that wall.

Mark my words.

Nobody would be tougher on ISIS than Donald Trump. Nobody.

I will find - within our military, I will find the General Patton or I will find General MacArthur, I will find the right guy. I will find the guy that's going to take that military and make it really work. Nobody, nobody will be pushing us around.

I will stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons. And we won't be using a man like Secretary Kerry that has absolutely no concept of negotiation, who's making a horrible and laughable deal, who's just being tapped along as they make weapons right now, and then goes into a bicycle race at 72 years old, and falls and breaks his leg. I won't be doing that. And I promise I will never be in a bicycle race. That I can tell you.

I will immediately terminate President Obama's illegal executive order on immigration, immediately.

Fully support and back up the Second Amendment.

Now, it's very interesting. Today I heard it. Through stupidity, in a very, very hard core prison, interestingly named Clinton, two vicious murderers, two vicious people escaped, and nobody knows where they are. And a woman was on television this morning, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump," and she was telling other people, and I actually called her, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump, I always was against guns. I didn't want guns. And now since this happened" - it's up in the prison area - "my husband and I are finally in agreement, because he wanted the guns. We now have a gun on every table. We're ready to start shooting."

I said, "Very interesting."

So protect the Second Amendment.

End - end Common Core. Common Core should - it is a disaster. Bush is totally in favor of Common Core. I don't see how he can possibly get the nomination. He's weak on immigration. He's in favor of Common Core. How the hell can you vote for this guy? You just can't do it. We have to end - education has to be local.

Rebuild the country's infrastructure.

Nobody can do that like me. Believe me. It will be done on time, on budget, way below cost, way below what anyone ever thought.

I look at the roads being built all over the country, and I say I can build those things for one-third. What they do is unbelievable, how bad.

You know, we're building on Pennsylvania Avenue, the Old Post Office, we're converting it into one of the world's great hotels. It's gonna be the best hotel in Washington, D.C. We got it from the General Services Administration in Washington. The Obama administration. We got it. It was the most highly sought after - or one of them, but I think the most highly sought after project in the history of General Services. We got it. People were shocked, Trump got it.

Well, I got it for two reasons. Number one, we're really good. Number two, we had a really good plan. And I'll add in the third, we had a great financial statement. Because the General Services, who are terrific people, by the way, and talented people, they wanted to do a great job. And they wanted to make sure it got built.

So we have to rebuild our infrastructure, our bridges, our roadways, our airports. You come into La Guardia Airport, it's like we're in a third world country. You look at the patches and the 40-year-old floor. They throw down asphalt, and they throw.

You look at these airports, we are like a third world country. And I come in from China and I come in from Qatar and I come in from different places, and they have the most incredible airports in the world. You come to back to this country and you have LAX, disaster. You have all of these disastrous airports. We have to rebuild our infrastructure.

Save Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security without cuts. Have to do it.

Get rid of the fraud. Get rid of the waste and abuse, but save it. People have been paying it for years. And now many of these candidates want to cut it. You save it by making the United States, by making us rich again, by taking back all of the money that's being lost.

Renegotiate our foreign trade deals.

Reduce our $18 trillion in debt, because, believe me, we're in a bubble. We have artificially low interest rates. We have a stock market that, frankly, has been good to me, but I still hate to see what's happening. We have a stock market that is so bloated.

Be careful of a bubble because what you've seen in the past might be small potatoes compared to what happens. So be very, very careful.

And strengthen our military and take care of our vets. So, so important.

Sadly, the American dream is dead.

But if I get elected president I will bring it back bigger and better and stronger than ever before, and we will make America great again.

Thank you. Thank you very much.

When I look back, that was great advice, concise and wise at once. I didn't really
  get it at first, but because it sounded good, I stuck to it. Later I realized how
comprehensive this is--how to keep your bases covered while thinking about the
    big picture. It's good advice no matter what your business or lifestyle.
                                       --DJT
A lot has happened to us all since 1987. That's the year The Art of the Deal
was published and became the bestselling business book of the decade,
with over three million copies in print.
    (Business Rule #1: If you don't tell people about your success, they
probably won't know about it.)
    A few months ago, I picked up The Art of the Deal, skimmed a bit, and
then read the first and last paragraphs. I realized that after seventeen years
they still rang true. I could have written these words yesterday:
    First paragraph: I don't do it for the money. I've got enough, much more
than I'll ever need. I do it to do it. Deals are my art form. Other people paint
beautifully on canvas or write wonderful poetry. I like making deals, preferably
big deals. That's how I get my kicks.
    Last paragraph: Don't get me wrong. I also plan to keep making deals, big
deals, and right around the clock.
    It's now 2004, I'm still making deals around the clock, and I still don't
do it for the money.
    I don't think you should do it for the money, either. Money is not an
end in itself, but it's sometimes the most effective way to help us realize
our dreams. So if you've got big dreams and you're looking for a way to
make them happen, this book is for you.
    How to Get Rich. That's what I decided to call it, because whenever I
meet people, that's usually what they want to know from me. You ask a
baker how he makes bread. You ask a billionaire how he makes money.
    Sure, there have been countless how-to-get-rich books written by
millionaires. Billionaire authors are harder to find. Billionaire authors with
interests in real estate, gaming, sports, and entertainment are rarer still.
    And billionaire authors with their own Manhattan skyscrapers and hit
prime-time TV series are the rarest of all. I'm pretty sure I'm the only one,
though Oprah could give me a run for the money if she ever decides to
write another book and get into real estate.
    Business Rule #2: Keep it short, fast, and direct. The following pages
will be straightforward and succinct, but don't let the brevity of these
passages prevent you from savoring the profundity of the advice you are
about to receive. These stories and words of wisdom have been distilled
from almost thirty years at the top.
    So here it comes: The Scoop from The Donald. After you make your
first billion, don't forget to send me a thank-you note. You know the
address.
In The Art of the Deal, I mentioned my nemesis and mentor at New York Military Academy,
      Theodore Dobias, here on my left. Major General John Brugmannis on my right.

I am the chairman and president of The Trump Organization. I like saying
that because it means a great deal to me. There are almost twenty
thousand members of this organization at this point. I did a print ad once
in which I declared, "I only work with the best." That statement still
stands.
    More and more, I see that running a business is like being a general.
Calling the shots carries a great deal of responsibility, not only for
yourself, but for your troops. Your employees' lives, to a large extent, are
dependent on you and your decisions. Bad strategy can end up affecting a
lot of people. This is where being a leader takes on a new dimension.
Every decision you make is an important one, whether there are twenty
thousand people working for you or just one.
    If you are careful when finding employees, management becomes a lot
easier. I rely on a few key people to keep me informed. They know I trust
them, and they do their best to keep that trust intact.
    For example, when I need to know something about my casinos and
hotels in Atlantic City, I know I can call up Mark Brown, my CEO, and get
a fast and informed answer. If I call Laura Cordovano over at Trump Park
Avenue and ask about sales, she'll give it to me exactly as it is. If I call
Allen Weisselberg, my CFO, he'll tell me what I need to know in twenty
words or less. My senior counsel and Apprentice adviser, George Ross, can
do it in ten words or less. Find people who suit your business style and
you'll have fewer problems to deal with as time goes on.
    Good people equals good management and good management equals
good people. They have to work together or they won't work together for
very long. I've seen good management get by with mediocre people, and
I've also seen excellent people get stuck in the mires of bad management.
The good managers will eventually leave, followed by the good workers,
and you will be left with a team that gets along because they're all
mediocre. Save yourself time by getting the best people you can.
Sometimes this can mean choosing attitude over experience and
credentials. Use your creativity to come up with a good mix.
    Creative people rarely need to be motivated--they have their own
inner drive that refuses to be bored. They refuse to be complacent. They
live on the edge, which is precisely what is needed to be successful and
remain successful.
    One of my former employees was in charge of a new project. He had
done a thorough and acceptable job, but I felt that something was missing.
It wasn't fantastic, which, knowing his capabilities, it should have been. I
decided to challenge his creative ego by mentioning that it was fine but
seemed to lack inspiration. I politely asked him whether he was genuinely
interested in the project and suggested that perhaps that might be the
problem.
    Well, the guy went ballistic on me. He was deeply insulted.
    And, as you can probably guess, the revision he turned in was terrific.
The difference between the first draft and the final version was incredible.
I didn't slam the guy because he was usually demanding of himself and
had never let me down. But I had to give him a jolt.
    Generals motivate their soldiers; they inspire them when it is
necessary. They do the same for their highest-ranking officers. We all need
a boost now and then. Learn how to tailor your method to the
personalities you are managing.
   Keep the big picture in mind while attending to the daily details. This
can seem like a balancing act, but it is absolutely necessary for success in
running a company.
In the 1980s, I was riding high. After learning the essentials of real estate
development from my father, Fred, a builder in Queens and Brooklyn, I'd
become a major player in Manhattan, developing Trump Tower, the
Grand Hyatt Hotel, and many other top-tier properties. I had a yacht, a
plane, a bestselling book.
    One magazine headline said, EVERYTHING HE TOUCHES TURNS TO
GOLD, and I believed it. I'd never known adversity. I went straight from
Wharton to wealth. Even in down markets, I bought properties
inexpensively and made a lot of money. I began to think it was easy.
    In the late eighties, I lost focus. I'd fly off to Europe to attend fashion
shows, and I wasn't looking at the clothing. My lack of attention was
killing my business.
    Then, the real estate market crashed. I owed billions upon billions of
dollars--$9.2 billion, to be exact. That's nine billion, two hundred million
dollars. I've told this story many times before, but it bears repeating: In the
midst of the crash, I passed a beggar on the street and realized he was
worth $9.2 billion more than I was. I saw a lot of my friends go bankrupt,
never to be heard from again.
    The media had me for lunch. Forbes, Business Week, Fortune, The Wall
Street Journal, The New York Times--they all published major stories about
my crisis, and a lot of people seemed to be happy about it.
    I'll never forget the worst moment. It was 3A.M. Citibank phoned me
at my home in Trump Tower. They wanted me to come over to their office
immediately to negotiate new terms with some foreign banks--three of
the ninety-nine banks to whom I owed billions.
    It's tough when you have to tell a banker that you can't pay interest.
They tend not to like those words. An ally at Citibank suggested that the
best way for me to handle this difficult situation was to call the banks
myself, and that's exactly what they wanted me to do, at three o'clock on a
cold January morning, in the freezing rain. There were no cabs, so I
walked fifteen blocks to Citibank. By the time I got there, I was drenched.
    That was the low point. There were thirty bankers sitting around a big
table. I phoned one Japanese banker, then an Austrian banker, and then a
third banker from a country I can no longer remember.
    In The Art of the Deal, I had warned readers never to personally
guarantee anything. Well, I hadn't followed my own advice. Of the $9.2
billion I owed, I'd personally guaranteed a billion dollars. I was a
schmuck, but I was a lucky schmuck, and I wound up dealing with some
understanding bankers who worked out a fair deal. After being the king of
the eighties, I survived the early nineties, and by the mid-to-late nineties, I
was thriving again.
    But I learned my lesson. I work as hard today as I did when I was a
young developer in the 1970s.
    Don't make the mistake I did. Stay focused.
William Levitt, the master builder of Levittown, taught me the true
meaning of "momentum."
   In the 1950s, he was the king. No detail was too small for his attention.
He would personally collect stray nails and extra chips of wood from
building sites to make sure his construction crews used all available
materials.
   He sold his company in 1956 to ITT for $100 million, which is
equivalent to billions today. Then he made some terrible mistakes.
   He retired.
   He married the wrong woman.
   He moved to the south of France and lived on the Riviera with his new
boat and his new wife.
   One day, ITT called. The executives in charge of the conglomerate had
no aptitude for home building. They had bought huge tracts of land but
didn't know how to get them zoned. So they sold it back to Levitt, who
thought he'd gotten a great deal
   He went back into business. And he proceeded to go bankrupt.
   I saw William Levitt at a cocktail party in 1994, two weeks before he
died. He was standing by himself in a corner, looking defeated. I didn't
know him well, but I approached him, hoping to acquire some wisdom
from the master. "Mr. Levitt," I said, "how are you doing?"

   "Not good, Donald, not good." Then he said the words I'll never
forget. "I lost my momentum. I was out of the world for twenty years, I
came back, and I wasn't the same."
   No matter how accomplished you are, no matter how well you think
you know your business, you have to remain vigilant about the details of
your field. You can't get by on experience or smarts. Even the best
surgeons need to be retrained regularly, to stay current on the latest
research and procedures.
   No matter what you're managing, don't assume you can glide by.
Momentum is something you have to work at to maintain.

Surround yourself with people you can trust. I often say it's good to be
paranoid, but not when it comes to your home team.
    Ask God for a great assistant. No joke. A great one can make your life
a whole lot easier--or, in my case, almost manageable. Norma Foerderer
has been with me for twenty-three years. If you want to know what a great
guy I am, just ask her. But not on a Friday.
    Handling me, the office, and several hundred calls a week isn't easy.
She's as tough and smart as she is gracious. She's also indefatigable, which
helps a lot if you work for me.
    My phones are so busy that I require two executive assistants, and
they never stop. They alone handle, on the average, more than 1,250 calls a
week. They are not only efficient and fast, but also very pleasant and
beautiful young women.
    You don't have to be beautiful to work for me--just be good at your
job. I've been accused of admiring beautiful women. I plead guilty. But
when it comes to the workplace, anyone who is beautiful had better have
brains, too. You need competent people with an inherent work ethic. I'm
not a complacent person and I can't have a complacent staff. I move
forward quickly and so must they.
    Once, I wanted to know how fast a new employee could work, so I
told him I was leaving in fifteen minutes and needed something done
within that time. I wasn't actually going anywhere, but, sure enough, I
had what I needed in fifteen minutes. Machiavellian? Maybe, but both of
us learned something that day.
    One final piece of advice on assistants, which I learned from
experience and which, I admit, may not be as relevant to your career as it's
been to mine: Find a receptionist who can speak English. We had a
breathtaking European beauty out front who could easily rival Ingrid
Bergman in her heyday, but I discovered that her ability to recognize well-
known people in the United States was limited to myself and maybe
President Bush. She wasn't so familiar with the likes of Hugh Grant,
Reggie Jackson, George Steinbrenner, Jack Welch, Paul Anka, Mohamed
Al Fayed, Regis Philbin, or Tony Bennett. Their calls never got through to
me and their names were placed on her "psycho list."
    But you should have seen her. What a knockout. She's since moved on
to better career opportunities, but we'll never forget her. Neither will
anyone who ever called in. Or tried to.
Set the standard. Don't expect your employees to work harder than you
do. In my case, I don't have to worry about that, because I work seven
days a week and love almost every minute of it. But also realize that your
company will sometimes function as an extended and dysfunctional
family. It's only natural, considering that people often spend more waking
hours with coworkers than they do with their families.
    A visitor in my office once mentioned that the goings-on there
reminded him of a family fight in progress. I will admit that the volume
level gets high now and then, and he wasn't far off in his assessment. But
if you want smooth sailing every day, move to the Mediterranean.
    Winners see problems as just another way to prove themselves.
Problems are never truly hardships to them, and if you haven't got any
problems, then you must not have a business to run.
    Regard your company as a living, breathing organism, because that's
what it is. Those figures you see on your spreadsheets will reflect the
health of that organism. Watch out for bad cells while allowing good cells
to flourish.
    Growth is an indication of life, so keep your organization moving
forward at all times. Having a passion for what you do is crucial. If you
can't get excited about what you are doing, how can you expect anyone
else to? If your employees can see and feel your energy, it is bound to
affect them.
   Don't intimidate people. If you do, you'll never get a straight answer
from anyone, and you'll be defeating your own purpose. I keep my door
open, and my people know I'm available as well as approachable. We
don't have chat-fests, but whatever needs to be done gets accomplished,
and quickly.
   Remember that your organization is your organization. That sounds
simplistic, but, bottom line, it's your ball game. The strategy is up to you,
and so are the results. Remember Harry Truman's famous words, which
he kept on his desk in the Oval Office? THE BUCK STOPS HERE. I keep a
similar quote on my desk. It reads: THE BUCK STARTS HERE.

If you equivocate, it's an indication that you're unsure of yourself and
what you're doing. It's also what politicians do all the time, and I find it
inappropriate, insulting, and condescending.
     I try not to do it. Fortunately, I don't have to try too hard at this one,
because I've been known to be on the blunt (and fast) side at times, which
is good.
     I once asked an executive in my organization to give me a synopsis of
a new development we were considering. He'd been to the city in
question, had spent some time there, and had done some careful
investigating. He went on to describe the merits of the site, the pitfalls, the
good things, the bad things, the pros, the cons--on and on in great detail.
He must've talked for ten minutes straight. Judging from what he was
telling me, there were just as many reasons to drop the project as there
were reasons to jump right in and get going. It was like a tied game with
no overtime.
     I asked him more questions, and we ended up exactly where we were
before. He was on both sides of the fence at once and didn't seem to want
to take a stand either way. This guy had a lot of experience and a good
track record, so finally I asked him what he thought of the project in ten
words or less.
     "It stinks," he said.
     He had eight words left, but he didn't need them.
1. Is there anyone else who can do this better than I can?
    That's just another way of saying: Know yourself, and know your
competition. If your competition is better than you are, you need to offer
some quality they lack.


2. What am I pretending not to see?
    We can all get swept up in the euphoria of a creative moment, or what
former president Richard Nixon's speechwriters used to call "the lift of a
dream." Before the dream lifts you into the clouds, make sure you've
looked hard at the facts on the ground.
I think it's funny that the phrase most closely associated with me these
days is "You're fired," because, the truth is, although I've had to fire
people from time to time, it's not a big part of my job. I much prefer
keeping loyal and hardworking people around for as long as they'd like to
be here. There's a wonderful lady in her nineties, Amy Luerssen, who
worked for my father and still reports to work every day at our Brooklyn
office. Here at The Trump Organization, Helen Rakotz has worked for me
from the day I moved to Manhattan, and she still puts in long hours every
week. She is eighty-two.
    Once I delayed firing someone for two years because this guy always
had such a great line of bullshit every time I came close to the topic. No
matter what was going on, he had some huge deal lined up that was just
about to come through.
    He managed to string me along for two solid years, and I believed him
every time--or wanted to. Finally, I was forced to realize that his claims
were bogus, but I gave him every chance before finally axing him.
    Unless your boss is a total sadist, he (or she) doesn't want to fire you
or cause hardship to your family. If you think you're in danger of being
fired, take control of the situation and ask your boss for a meeting.
    Make sure you ask for the meeting at the right time. Tell your boss you
want to make sure you are communicating and doing your job to
everyone's satisfaction.
    Of course, if your boss is a sadist, or just a lousy communicator,
you've still got a problem. In that case, fire your boss and get a better job.
There's no sense in trying to cope with a bad situation that will never
improve.
    I never try to dissuade people from quitting. If they don't want to be
here, I don't want them to be here, either. No one has ever come to me
with an ultimatum. People see how it works here, and if it doesn't suit
them, they move on. Sometimes it happens quickly. A qualified and
experienced receptionist worked here for a grand total of six hours. She
realized right away that the pace just wasn't suited to her, and she very
politely told us so and left. I appreciated her quick thinking and efficient
decision-making skills. She'll have a successful career somewhere else.
Some people give such great interviews that you're ready to make them
vice presidents on the spot, until you realize that their true talent is simply
giving a great interview. That's why, in a sense, every new hire is a
gamble.
    Impressive credentials don't always add up to a great performance or
a good fit. Nonexistent credentials don't necessarily mean a no-talent.
Being circumspect helps a lot and keeps you from being surprised. People
can offer an interesting mix of pros and cons. Time will do the weeding
out for you. All you have to do is pay attention.
    What I look for in employees is a sense of responsibility that goes
beyond what is merely sufficient. Some people do the bare minimum, and
some people will actually be concerned about the organization as a whole.
They see themselves as having a direct relationship to the success or
failure of the company they work for. They believe they are important,
and their work shows it. If you can instill this sense of worth in your
employees, you will have a tip-top team working for you. People who take
pride in their work are the kind you want to have around--and the kind I
like to keep around.
    I especially like employees who spend--and, more important, save--
the company's money as if it were their own. Companies suffer when
employees don't make enough of an effort to control costs. The employees
who feel a personal responsibility for their budgets, who view the
company's bottom line as an extension of their own personal savings
account, are often the ones who get the best results. If you let your boss
know that you're watching out for his or her bottom line, you'll always be
appreciated.
    I respect employees who can think on their feet. So does George Ross,
my senior counsel. His assistant, Carole Berkowitz, was helping out at the
front desk one day when she received a call from a stranger who said she
was about to commit suicide. Carole deemed the call credible and took a
few moments to listen to the distressed woman.
    Carole asked her where she was from, and the woman replied that she
lived in Southern California, not far from the beach. Carole responded,
"You live in California? Near the beach? Do you know how cold it is in
New York today? It's eight degrees outside! And that's without the
windchill. I almost froze just getting to work. If I were you, I'd go out right
now, take a long walk on the beach, and sit in the sun for a while. That's
what I'd do if I were you." The woman instantly calmed down and
thanked Carole for being so nice to her.
    That's the kind of person we like to have around.
    A certain amount of personal ambition is necessary, but not to the
point where it undermines the common goal of the company. If your
group can't work together, you won't accomplish much. I don't like
backstabbing. It's not necessary, and it's insulting to me. I have eyes and
ears and instincts, too. I can assess people and situations for myself. If
people have time to be petty, it's an indication they're not busy enough
with their work.
    You can't expect to be a valuable employee if you don't make yourself
valuable. Think about it: What do you contribute to the welfare of the
organization? Are you instrumental in keeping it humming and moving
forward? Do you work wholeheartedly or halfheartedly? Are you just
going through the motions and hoping no one will notice? The only
person you ever fool is yourself. You can't fool others, even though you
might think you can.
    A lot of people say they're going through the motions because their
position isn't challenging or rewarding and there's no room to grow. It's a
dead-end situation. That might very well be. If so, look elsewhere for a
company that could offer you a promotion in your particular area of
interest or expertise. There are times when you should move on, and
situations in which the only way up is out.
If you run a company, make yourself accessible to your employees. If they
feel they can bring ideas to you, they will. If they feel they can't, they
won't. You might miss out on a lot of good ideas, and pretty soon you
might be missing a lot of employees. I allow people to run their ideas by
me. I don't have a lot of time, so they have to be prepared and succinct.
I'm sure that's the protocol of any busy CEO. So if you're going to be bold
enough to present your idea, make it as clear as possible, and don't take it
casually. Think of it as a presentation that could cost you a lot of money if
you were to lose the client. Your boss's time is important, and you won't
win any points by wasting it.
    Learn to recognize the fine line between being pushy and being
intelligently assertive. It can be an issue of timing--pay attention to what's
happening around you and pace yourself according to that rhythm. I try
to develop a tempo when I'm working. Someone who interrupts it is not
going to receive a warm welcome.
    Also, remember this: The boss has the big picture; you don't. So if your
idea doesn't meet with hurrahs, it could very well be that a similar idea is
already in development or that your idea is not in step with plans that
have already been made. This shouldn't discourage you, because your
initiative will always be noticed. But recognize when not to press an issue,
and don't expect a lengthy explanation of why.
    I like people who don't give up, but merely being a pest is detrimental
to everyone. Once again, fine-tune your discernment. Know when to ease
up. Keep your antennae up for another idea and a more appropriate
opportunity. Sometimes we hesitate with good reason.
    There was one former employee who I liked a lot, but he reminded me
of a jumping bean. He couldn't keep still for more than three seconds at a
time. Even riding in the car with him became an ordeal, because being in
an enclosed space seemed to warm him up even more and then he'd really
get going. I finally learned to avoid him as much as possible, and that's too
bad, because he was a great guy. But enough is enough. Too much will
cause people to tune you out--or wish that you would move to another
state. Last I heard, the jumping bean was living in Montana. I only hope
they have enough space there to contain him, and every time I hear about
UFO sightings in Montana, I have to laugh. I know who it is.
    One last thing: If your boss says no to an idea, pay attention. Most
likely, there's a good reason. No one disregards a terrific idea. It just might
not be the right terrific idea for the company you're with. Maybe you're
meant to go off on your own as an entrepreneur. Let that be an indication
to you. It could be the beginning of your career, rather than the end of it.

People who work for me know there's a lot more to me than my public
persona. I'm not one-dimensional, and if you realize that the people
around you aren't either, you'll be utilizing the hidden potential that just
about everyone has. Whether they want to use it or not is up to them to a
certain extent, but it's also up to a leader to recognize it or at least to give it
a chance to unfold. Most people don't like to stagnate, and if you want to
keep your company moving forward, look around you now and then for
fresh possibilities within your organization. Never let someone's job title
be the sole indication of their worth.
    People at The Trump Organization have transcended their positions
on many occasions. Matthew Calamari, the executive vice president of
operations, started as a security guard. After getting to know Matthew, I
realized he had a lot more to offer than his job title warranted, and he has
proven me right. He's a dedicated and trustworthy worker, and any CEO
in his right mind would want to have him around. As an executive VP, he
is in charge of building operations and runs my entire security
organization. He is in charge of major building projects, with his brother
Michael and Andy Weiss. Their most notable recent accomplishment is the
new building on the site of the former Delmonico Hotel at Park Avenue
and Fifty-ninth Street. I'm calling it Trump Park Avenue. Catchy, right?
    Vinnie Stellio, who was hired by Matthew Calamari, started as my
bodyguard and is now a vice president. He has just what it takes to be an

effective executive, which was clear to me, if not immediately to him.
Vinnie would often drive executives, architects, and contractors up to
Westchester to look at developments I was building. Now they report to
him. I am perhaps the largest owner of land in Westchester County, and
now it's Vinnie who keeps his eye on it all.
    John Tutolo, president of Trump Model Management, our modeling
agency, started as a booker and now has what many guys would consider
a dream job.
    Meredith McIver, who made the writing of this book a pleasure
instead of a headache, started out as a media assistant. I recognized that
her talents encompassed much more. Of course, it takes talent to deal with
me and everyone else every day (but especially me). I could have hired an
outside collaborator to help me with this book, but why spend time
looking outside the organization when you have all the people you need
right beside you?
    Very often, your resources are greater than you might think. I don't
like it when people underestimate me, and I try not to underestimate
anyone else, either. People are multifaceted, and it's important to let them
function in a way that will allow them to shine. Most people would rather
succeed than fail, but sometimes the leader has to be the catalyst for
putting "success" into their personal vocabulary.
    In other words, try to see beyond a person's title. You can find talent
in unlikely places.
I once heard a story about a guy who owned an advertising agency. There
was one writer who drove the other writers crazy because he would
appear to be doing nothing in his office. He made no attempt to look busy.
    Finally, his colleagues complained to his boss about his laziness. The
boss suddenly perked up and asked, "How long has he been this way?"
    One of the other writers answered, "For weeks and weeks! He sits
there and does zip. It's like he's in a coma."
    The boss said, "I want all of you to be quiet and not to disturb him,
and every now and then ask if you can get him some coffee or some lunch
or run some errands for him."
    Needless to say, the employees were deflated and started grumbling.
Then the boss explained his rationale: "Listen, the last time he was acting
this way, and the time before that, he came up with ideas worth many
millions of dollars. So when I tell you not to disturb him, I have a reason
for it."
    People have different ways of achieving results. I enjoy figuring out
how each of my key employees excels. If people are your resource, you'd
better try to learn something useful about them. Being able to do so is
what makes a good manager a great one.
    Some people respond well to the fear factor. Ever hear this exchange?


    Question: "How long have you been working here?"

   Answer: "Ever since they threatened to fire me."


   Well, it applies to some employees. Fortunately, I seem to attract
people who enjoy working, but now and then a few slugs will show up,
and the loss of face (or job) can be a good motivator for many.
   That said, it will always work against you to demoralize your
employees in any way. I can be tough, but most people will admit I'm fair.
You can crush people if you don't weigh your words carefully. Your
power as a leader should be used in the most positive way, which
sometimes calls for a great deal of restraint as well as patience. I have to
laugh when I hear people say, "I can't wait until I'm the big shot so I can
order everyone around." It doesn't quite work that way.
   Abraham Lincoln made an appropriate remark that is pertinent to
management: "Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to test
a man's character, give him power.

I'm always taken aback when people say, "Oh, he's got it made," as if
that's the end of the conversation about a person. They seem to be saying
that the person can just check out and coast because he's already arrived.
    To me, arriving means something is about to begin. Graduation from
college is a beginning, not an ending. Each success is the beginning of the
next one.
    Learning is a new beginning we can give ourselves every day.
    A know-it-all is like a closed door. Everyone who knows me knows I
keep the door to my office open. It's symbolic of the way I choose to think,
and it's the way I operate. My father was much the same. He once said to
me, "You know, the more I learn, the more I realize I don't know. I think
that has kept me young at heart more than anything else." It was an
offhand comment, a quiet realization he mentioned to me one day while
he was reading, but it has stuck with me for decades.
    Every day is a reminder to me of how much I don't know. Everything
I learn leads me to something else I didn't know. Fortunately, I don't pride
myself on being a know-it-all, so every day becomes a new challenge.
People ask me what keeps me going, and this is probably the closest
answer to the truth. If I end the day without knowing more than I did
when I woke up, it makes me wonder: What did I miss out on today? Am I
getting lazy? I am a disciplined person, and this thought alone can get me
going.
We've all heard the phrase creature of habit. That can be good or bad,
depending on your habits. I've cultivated the learning habit over the years,
and it's one of the most pleasurable aspects of my life. Everyone in my

family knows I'm big on education--not just Ivy League education, but all
education, and for people of all ages. That also applies to me, and while I
got very good grades at school, I do not have time to be a scholar. Still, it's
something I aspire to in my quiet time. Possibilities unfold. The world
opens up.
    My sister Maryanne introduced me to the writings of Aldous Huxley.
He was such a learner that when he was faced with near-total blindness as
a young man, he learned Braille and continued his studies anyway. His
description of this predicament had not a trace of self-pity. In fact, he
mentioned that it had offered some benefits: He could now read in bed at
night and his hands would never get cold because he could read with his
hands under the covers.
    Learning begets learning. I'd rather be stimulated than passive.
    You can't wear a blindfold in business. A regular part of your day
should be devoted to expanding your horizons.
    We live in a big world, and it is important for us to be aware of
cultures other than our own. I have always lived in the United States, but I
make an effort to be informed about other cultures. That's easy to do in
New York City, the most diverse and exciting place on earth.
    Someone who had been living abroad for a few years told me, upon
returning home, that a frequent comment about Americans is that you
always know exactly where we're coming from. The flip side of this is that
we rarely know where anyone else is coming from. We're very much up to
snuff about our own national events, but we are less aware of what's
happening in other countries. All of us need to pay more attention to
events outside our own realm. We are connected to each other in so many
ways--politically, commercially, socially. Perhaps one of the reasons I've
been able to sell and rent apartments to people of so many foreign
nationalities is that I've made an effort to understand where they're
coming from.
    Learn something new, whether you think you're interested in it or not.
That's the opposite of having a closed mind--or a closed door. I can thank
my father for the example he set. It was the key to his remaining young
and dynamic into his nineties. It can do the same for you, if you make the
effort.
This is the final rule of the Donald J. Trump School of Business and
Management. Once you have mastered it, you are ready to graduate.
    It's a big world. There's a lot we don't know, which means there's still
a lot to be discovered and a lot to be accomplished.
    The possibilities are always there. If you're thinking too small, you
might miss them.
    In some ways, it's easier to buy a skyscraper than a small house in a
bad section of Brooklyn. Either way, you'll probably need financing, and
most people would rather invest in a great building than a dilapidated
duplex on a dangerous street. With the skyscraper, if you hit, at least you
hit big. And if you don't hit, what's the difference between losing $100,000
or hundreds of millions of dollars? Either way, you've lost, so you might
as well have really gone for it.
    I've read stories in which I'm described as a cartoon, a comic book
version of the big-city business mogul with the gorgeous girlfriend and
the private plane and the personal golf course and the penthouse
apartment with marble floors and gold bathroom fixtures. But my cartoon
is real. I am the creator of my own comic book, and I love living in it. If
you're going to think, think big. If you're going to live, live large.
I've had some interesting experiences with job interviews over the years.
Norma Foerderer is a good example. I wasn't too sure about her after her
first interview. It had nothing to do with her skills. But she seemed a little
too prim, like she belonged on some family sitcom as the ever-so-proper
type. I didn't think she could handle it here, or that she would fit with my
style.
    Norma persisted, seeming to recognize a good match better than I did.
Little did I know how deceptive first impressions could be. Norma was
actually as far from fluff as you could get. So, I thought, Okay, maybe. Her
abilities were superior to those of anyone else I had seen. As it turned out,
I called her back on the same day her mother died, but Norma gave me an
offer I couldn't refuse: She'd work for me for one month at a low salary
just to see whether we clicked. No strings attached.
    I thought, Aha! She'll never last anyway, and I can decide on someone
else in the meantime. After one month with me, she'd be outta here for
sure. The hoity-toity type just won't fly, except out the front door.
    Needless to say, I underestimated Norma completely. I was duly
humbled and, I must add, grateful for being so. She was persistent and
committed to getting the job, and she did it with elegance.

When it comes to your career, certain moves should not be made without
careful consideration of the old and very apt saying "Timing is
everything."
    For example, if you've decided to ask for a raise, look around first. So
many times, employees who I like very much do the dumbest things when
it comes to conversations about their salaries.
    Jason Greenblatt, a young and brilliant lawyer who works for me, is
terrific at everything he does, but one day, I swear, he must have been
wearing blindfolds--and earplugs.
    I was having an especially tough, vicious, terrible, miserable day that
seemed never-ending to me and to everyone else. It was a grand-slam
rotten day. No one could possibly have mistaken it for anything else.
    Late in the afternoon, by which time I had had enough, I heard a polite
knock on my door. I yelled out "WHAT?" in my most exasperated tone.
Jason nonchalantly entered my office, completely ignoring my angry
welcome, and proceeded to ask me for a raise.
    I could not believe a lawyer as smart as Jason could make such a dumb
move. I use his real name only because Jason knows how much I like and
respect him, despite his incredible faux pas. But I have to tell you that I
was ready to kill him. Was he joking? It's amazing, but he wasn't. He was
dead serious. I couldn't believe it.
    Did he get a raise? Not that day. He almost got fired for stupidity,
except that I told him to get out before I really lost my temper. I also told
him that although he might be brilliant, his timing for certain things
needed work--and that maybe he ought to start paying attention to what
was going on around him. I remember thinking to myself, Did I really hire
such a person? But as I said, it had been a rough day.
    Jason is still with me, and he gets lots of raises because he's great at
what he does. But now he always waits for sunny days, blue skies, and
puffy white clouds on the horizon before approaching me. I told you he
was smart.
    The best way to ask for a raise is to wait for the right time. It also
indicates to your boss that you have a certain amount of discernment and
appreciation for what he might be going through himself. I need my
people to be plugged in to what's going on with me.
    What impresses me most about people is their work ethic. A certain
amount of swagger is okay--it's just another form of enthusiasm--but,
bottom line, I look for results. When I mentioned to a salesperson that I
had to cut her salary because she'd made no sales in nine months, she just
about went nuts. But some things are common sense. What would she do
if she had a nonproductive salesperson on her own roster?
    If you knew your company was scheduled to give a major client
presentation at 3P.M., would you approach your boss at 2:45 to ask for a
raise?
    Money, like comedy, is all about timing
The Art of the Deal contained a chapter called "West Side Story," about my
acquisition of the West Side yards, a hundred-acre property fronting the
Hudson River from Fifty-ninth Street to Seventy-second Street. The
chapter title was a deliberate double entrendre, as I knew that the popular
musical West Side Story had taken ten years to put together. Its creative
team had included no less than Leonard Bernstein, Jerome Robbins,
Stephen Sondheim, and Arthur Laurents, so whenever I experienced
setbacks or delays on my West Side project, I would remind myself that I
had some very illustrious company.
    It's now seventeen years later and it's still a work in progress, but the
example set by the architects of West Side Story has served me well. You
don't create a classic overnight.
    I'm calling it Trump Place. It's a $5-billion project, the biggest
development ever approved by the New York City Planning Commission.
When it's done, Trump Place will have 5,700 residential units and more
than five million square feet of commercial space. So far, four towers have
been completed and are occupied, and two additional buildings are under
construction. When we're done, there will be a total of sixteen buildings
on the site.
    Trump Place is a good example of why tenacity is crucial in business. I
bought the property in 1974. We've hit snags along the way and made
many changes over time, but for more than thirty years, we've
At times, just about every executive will appear impatient, but to build
something that endures, you have to take the long view.
    Recently, an employee told me that the pastor of her church had used
Trump Place as an example of what a firm foundation should be, whether
it be in faith, family, or, as in my case, buildings. The pastor, whose church
was near the construction site, would watch each building go up and
marvel at the immensity of the work. Each building could be a hundred
stories high, he said, considering the meticulous foundation work.
    My publisher sent me an inspiring book by Bill Shore called The
Cathedral Within, which celebrates the commitment and hope necessary to
build something that endures. It might be a cathedral like the one in
Milan, which took five hundred years to build, or it might be a community
organization or a business.
    Paul Davis, the man developing Trump Place for me and my partners,
is a true cathedral builder. I have rarely seen anyone work so hard or so
diligently--Saturdays, Sundays--he's there at all hours, paying close
attention to every impeccable detail of the layouts, room sizes, and the
quality of the fixtures. He's one of the big reasons for our success.
    Some things are worth waiting for. For me, Trump Place is one of
those things: Sixteen beautifully designed buildings on the Hudson River.
A twenty-five-acre park. The Upper West Side as a backyard. This could
prove to be my finest contribution to the city of New York. Time will tell,
but I'm in no rush, and I won't stop until I'm done.

                             Play Golf
I made a lot of money on the golf course before I ever went into golf as a
business. I found solutions to problems, new ideas for ventures, and even
a new career. Golf has a way of giving you an equilibrium that you can't
always find in the office.
    Doing what you love will always make you a winner, and after
spending many happy hours on golf courses, I decided to build some of
my own. I am now one of the busiest golf course developers in the United
States, with two award-winning, internationally acclaimed courses fully
operational and two more in the works.
    My first course, the Trump International Golf Club in Palm Beach,
Florida, has been home to the ADP LPGA championships for three years.
When I first decided to develop the most beautiful golf courses possible, I
did some research and got in touch with the most respected designers in
the business--the Fazio family. Just as Michelangelo had an affinity for
sculpting marble, some people have an affinity for sculpting land. In this
case, Jim and Tommy Fazio designed a dream come true for any golfer,
not only visually, but in terms of playability.
    The course opened in 1999. With its waterfalls and landscapes unique
to Florida, Trump International Golf Club is already a landmark course in
the state--and the best course in Florida.
    My second course was Trump National at Briarcliff Manor in New
York. We moved three million yards of earth, the largest land excavation
ever in Westchester County, and it was worth it. We were also dealing
with stone, which was used for walls and a spectacular waterfall on the
thirteenth hole--a 101-foot cliff of black granite quarried from the
property--which pumps five thousand gallons a minute. The walls were
built by my very talented stone mason, Frank Sanzo. Membership costs
$300,000. I think it's a bargain.
    My third golf course is Trump National Golf Club, in a sumptuous
area of New Jersey known as Bedminster. It is being designed by the
master golf course architect himself, Tom Fazio. Three times, Golf Digest
has named Fazio the Best Modern Day Golf Course Architect, and when
you see this course, you'll know why. It will be long, big, and beautiful,
and I am involved daily in the design and construction. Additional plans
for this property, formerly owned by automaker John DeLorean and
located in the heart of New Jersey's horse country, will include a second
course and a world-class clubhouse designed in the colonial mansion
style.
    I don't want to limit my golfing to the East Coast, so in 2002 I bought a
course along two miles of the Pacific Ocean. What was formerly known as
Ocean Trails in Palos Verdes will now be known as Trump National Golf
Club, Los Angeles. The course had fallen into disrepair under its previous
owners--the eighteenth hole fell into the ocean--so I'm rebuilding it with
legendary golf course architect Pete Dye. We're also planning to build
luxury estate homes on the property. When completed, this course will be
the best in California.
When we announced the deal, the Los Angeles Times reported, "As he has
so many times before, Trump has spotted a trend to tap." True, but mostly
I was following my instincts and my interests.
    Building golf courses is not a big business for me and it's unlikely that
I will ever do another one. I want only the best.
    Sometimes I will sell memberships while I am hitting balls on the
practice range. People approach me and hand me checks. One recent day
at my Florida course, a group of four wealthy friends came to me with
checks of $300,000 each. I said to myself: Not bad; I'm playing a game I love
and going home with $1,200,000 in my pocket.
    I realize that some of you don't care much about golf. Golf is one of
those things that has aficionados, just as opera has diehard fans who will
fly around the world to catch a certain performance. To people who don't
know or like opera, that seems absurd.
    I can't make you love golf, but, believe me, once you've had the
opportunity to play on a beautiful course, it could turn you into an
enormous fan, or even a passionate player, no matter how poorly you hit
the ball.
    If anyone had told me twenty years ago that I'd become a dedicated
golf course developer, I would have sent them out of the room for being
ridiculous. But golf has a transforming power. It's a brain game. Yes, there
is skill and technique involved, but, just as important, it requires
concentration and assessment.
    It's a great way to improve your business skills, to learn how to
maneuver. It can even be equated with learning how to negotiate, which is
an art in itself.
    Golf is also, in essence, a solitary game. Being an entrepreneur, even
within a large company, is a solitary game.
    Ultimately, the rule here is not just to visit one of my golf courses
(though you would be wise to do so) but to turn your passion into profit.
The results of that passion will reward you in more ways than you ever
could have expected.
    Passion is enthusiasm on a big scale. It is all-encompassing and
consuming. People with passion never give up because they'll never have
a reason to give up, no matter what their circumstances may be. It's an
intangible momentum that can make you indomitable.
    Take out the passion and you will have a fizzle or, perhaps, an okay
product at best. Add the passion and you will be in a rarefied realm that
every other "passionista" will recognize--and one that every person
would like to enter.
    A friend of mine is a member of what I call "the lucky sperm club"--
born into a wealthy family. He followed his father to Wall Street, but he
was a total failure. He didn't like it, and he couldn't do it. Meanwhile, he
became increasingly involved in his Connecticut country club. He was
named the head of the greens committee and took on the lead role in
rebuilding the golf course. He loved it and was great at it. The club held a
dinner for him out of gratitude for his volunteer work. I asked him, "Why
don't you do this for a living? You're not for Wall Street. You're getting
eaten alive there." He told me his family wouldn't understand if he quit a
serious job to work on golf courses.
    Well, two years later he took my advice, quit the Wall Street job, and is
now working full-time at renovating golf courses. He says he loves getting
up in the morning, and he is doing better than ever.
    Of course, you don't have to learn how to play golf to have a satisfying
career. But no matter what you do, you must be passionate about it.
I was originally going to call Trump Tower by another name--Tiffany
Tower, for the famous jewelry store next door. I asked a friend, "Do you
think it should be Trump Tower or Tiffany Tower?" He said, "When you
change your name to Tiffany, call it Tiffany Tower."
    We've all seen the power of a brand name, especially quality brand
names. Coco Chanel became world-famous eighty years ago by naming
her first perfume Chanel No. 5, and it's still going strong in a fiercely
competitive market. Her fragrance, as well as her name, has become
timeless. She proved that the right ingredients can create a legend.
    Trump has become a great brand name, due to my rigorous standards
of design and quality. We all admire Rolls-Royce cars, and I see every one
of my ventures as being just that elite. Being a stickler has paid off,
because my buildings are considered to be the finest in the world. That
may sound like bragging, but it's also a fact. I've never been one to
confuse facts with fiction. In 2003, Chicago Tribune real estate columnist
Mary Umberger attributed the sales for Trump International Hotel and
Tower in Chicago to "The Trump Factor." Umberger reported: "The sales
velocity surprises even experienced real-estate players, who told me at the
sales inaugural that they doubted Trump would gain enough momentum
because Chicago's luxury market was--and is--in a lull."
    Some people have written that I'm boastful, but they're missing the
point. I believe in what I say, and I deliver the goods. If you're devoting
your life to creating a body of work, and you believe in what you do, and
what you do is excellent, you'd better damn well tell people you think so.
Subtlety and modesty are appropriate for nuns and therapists, but if
you're in business, you'd better learn to speak up and announce your
significant accomplishments to the world--nobody else will.
    When I'm setting the price for a luxury apartment, I consider a lot of
factors--the market, the location, and the competition. Then I set my own
standards. Once, when some top-of-the-line apartments weren't selling, I
upped the prices, way over the competition. They started selling
immediately.
    I view my work as an art form and approach it with the same intensity
and ego as any ambitious artist would. I never planned on becoming a
brand name, but the fit of my aesthetic nature with each product I became
involved with has resulted in an expanding network of interests. The
success of the Trump name worldwide has been a surprise.
    It's been a good surprise. For example, using my name on a building
carries with it a promise of the highest quality available and at least a $5-
million price tag. That's just for the name, because it will be worth it to the
developers, and they know it. That building will be up to my standards.
When I remember the line from Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet--"What's
in a name?"--I have to laugh. What's in a name can be far more than
either the Bard or I ever could have imagined.
    We've all noticed the ascendancy of brand names and the power they
have, from Levi's to Louis Vuitton. Some people are against this
widespread branding, seeing it as another form of labeling. I see it as a
viable outlet for creativity.
    If you're on the brink of success in your career, some snob might ask
you dismissively, "You don't want to become a brand name, do you?"
Anyone who asks you that does not have the big picture in focus--and
they are usually just envious.
    I can get a project off the ground in no time now, whereas an
unknown developer would require many months, if not years, to get
something going. The number of people I employ to get a project finished
reaches into the thousands, and those people would not have a building to
work on without a developer to give them a job. Commerce and art cannot
function independently--they must work together. That is the beauty of a
successful brand name.
    If there is a downside to being a well-known name, it is that you
become an easy target. The media needs to tear down what it builds up;
that's just part of journalism--stories are about heroes and villains, or
success and failure. If you're a brand name, they're going to take a shot at
you. It comes with the territory, and I've learned to live with it. As we say
on The Apprentice: It's not personal. It's business.
    Fortunately, if you have the critics who matter on your side, reading
the newspaper can be a lot of fun. Herbert Muschamp, the architecture
critic for The New York Times, is a scholar and an authority when it comes
to buildings. To receive a compliment from him has an intrinsic value that
will never diminish. When he wrote an article on Trump World Tower
and described it as "a handsome hunk of a glass tower," I was very
honored. Here's more of what he wrote:


     Although Donald Trump prefers to publicize the aggressive side of
     his nature--it's the manly thing to do--he is also the only beauty
     freak at large in New York City real estate development... It's not
     surprising that unofficial approval of Trump's building should
     come by way of the Museum of Modern Art. The tower embodies
     the Miesian aesthetic through which the Modern's design
     department's taste was initially formulated--I hope Trump sticks
     with this material. Trump does better when he ignores his critics
     than when he pays attention to them.
  So don't be afraid to toot your own horn when you've done something
worth tooting about.
  And don't believe the critics unless they love your work.
Being an entrepreneur is not a group effort. You have to trust yourself.
You may have superb academic credentials, but without instincts you'll
have a hard time getting to--and staying at--the top.
    This is one of those gray areas that remain an enigma even to those
who have finely honed business instincts. There are inexplicable signs that
can guide you to or away from certain deals and certain people.
    For example, within a few seconds of meeting Mark Burnett, the
creator of The Apprentice, I knew he was one hundred percent solid, both
as a person and as a professional, which is a remarkable accomplishment
in the entertainment industry.
    On the other hand, I've met people that I have an aversion to for no
particular reason, and while I try not to be judgmental, I have reason by
now to trust my gut. Carl Jung said our conscious minds use only five
percent of our brain power for daily functioning. If we can learn to tap
into that unconscious, subconscious, and dormant ninety-five percent, the
results can be amazing.
There are a lot of ups and downs, but you can ride them out if you're
prepared for them.
    Learning to expect problems saved me from a lot of wasted energy,
and it will save you from unexpected surprises. It's like Wall Street; it's
like life. The ups and downs are inevitable, so simply try to be prepared
for them.
    Sometimes I'll ask myself why I want to take on some new, big
challenge. A substantial loss is always a possibility. Can I handle it if it
doesn't go well? Will I be asking myself later, Why did I ever do that? What
was I thinking? I'm actually a very cautious person, which is different from
being a pessimistic person. Call it positive thinking with a lot of reality
checks.
In 2000, I thought about running for president of the United States as a
third-party candidate. I proposed some sensible ideas: tax cuts for the
middle class, tougher trade deals, a ban on unregulated soft money in
campaigns, comprehensive health care reform. I formed an exploratory
committee and met with Reform Party leaders, but in the end I realized I
was enjoying my business too much to run for office.
    Remember the rule I mentioned earlier about how you shouldn't
equivocate? That may work for business, but in politics, you usually have
to watch your words. I'm too blunt to be a politician. Then, there's my
long-held aversion to shaking hands. (More on this in a moment.) Had I
entered the race, I wouldn't have been very popular. Even during the few
months I was considering candidacy, I noticed that people began to treat
me differently--in a more reserved, less friendly way. Before, I had been
The Donald, someone they would wave and smile at. Suddenly, it was a
different ball game, and it didn't seem like much fun to me. One guy I had
been friendly with for years saw me at Le Cirque and for the first time in
my life called me "Mr. Trump." He had always called me "Donald." That
was a real heads-up.
    A lot of successful businesspeople think they can apply their
management skills to politics, but I've noticed that only a select few, like
Michael Bloomberg and Jon Corzine, succeed. Most others lack the
temperament for it.
    There's a larger point here, beyond the obvious ones about not
confusing your talent for office politics with a gift for electoral politics.
Anyone with more than a little curiosity and ambition will at some point
be tempted to try a different challenge on new terrain. Take the risk, but
before you do, do everything you can to learn what you're getting yourself
into, and be as sure as you can that you've got the right mind-set for the
job.

Some business executives believe in a firm handshake. I believe in no
handshake. It is a terrible practice. So often, I see someone who is
obviously sick, with a bad cold or the flu, who approaches me and says,
"Mr. Trump, I would like to shake your hand." It's a medical fact that this
is how germs are spread. I wish we could follow the Japanese custom of
bowing instead.
    The worst is having to shake hands during a meal. On one occasion, a
man walked out of the restaurant's bathroom, jiggling his hands as though
they were still wet and he hadn't used a towel. He spotted me, walked
over to my table, and said, "Mr. Trump, you're the greatest. Would you
please shake my hand?"
    I knew that if I didn't shake his hand, he'd be saying terrible things
about me for thirty years. I also knew that if I agreed, my own hands
would be loaded with germs or whatever the hell he'd carried out of the
bathroom. I had a choice.
    In this case, I decided to shake hands, because I was a little overweight
at the time and knew that if I shook his hand I wouldn't eat my meal--and
that would be a good thing.
If you don't know every aspect of what you're doing, down to the paper
clips, you're setting yourself up for some unwelcome surprises.
    I once read about an esteemed brain surgeon in San Francisco who
was known for being fanatical about detail and organization. He would go
over the components of an upcoming surgery in his head as he jogged
every morning. He'd visualize every detail, as if to remind himself of
everything he'd learned, every difficulty and complication he might
encounter.
    He wasn't known for his bedside manner, but he was the best. If I had
to have brain surgery, he's the kind of surgeon I'd choose. But you don't
have to be a brain surgeon to pay attention to the details.
One of the problems with my schedule lately is that I am unable to
accommodate most of the requests I receive for public speaking. I happen
to enjoy giving speeches. I know some people dread the thought of having
to give a presentation in a boardroom, let alone appearing before
thousands of people. Not me. I get so much energy from my audiences
that it is always fun.
    I'll bet a lot of you are wondering whether I'm making that up to
sound like I'm not afraid of anything. It's possible I'm forgetting a few
stressful moments. Years ago I was probably nervous about facing an
audience, but I got over it. Being afraid of speaking in public is something
you can conquer. The following pointers can be applied by people who
find presentations, whatever the size of the audience, to be a roadblock on
their highway to success.
    It helps if you are a naturally gregarious person. My driver, Tony,
recalls a time when I was going to deliver a speech. When we were about
five minutes away, I asked Tony what I was supposed to be talking about
that night. Tony couldn't hide his shock. He said, "Boss, don't you know?
There are twenty thousand people waiting for you."
    I said, "Yeah, but I've been busy. I'm sure it will be okay." I was trying
to reassure him.
    No go. He said, "Where are your notes? Didn't you make any notes?"
    I said, "I'm making some now."
    Tony was looking at me through the rearview mirror with an
expression of astonishment. I think he was checking to see whether I was
kidding. I wasn't.
    I'd been asked to give the speech by Anthony Robbins, the bestselling
author and self-help guru. I had been paid a great deal of money for the
speech, but I'd never asked how many people I would be speaking in front
of. As I was leaving the office to go to Philadelphia, my secretary told me I
would be speaking at a basketball arena, the Wachovia Center, and that
there would be approximately twenty thousand people there. I said,
"You've got to be kidding. I've never spoken before twenty thousand
people before!"


   That situation could cause panic in some people. Instead, I thought
about my audience not as a massive group of people just waiting to judge
me, but as individuals who might be there because they're interested in
something. Then I started thinking about what people are interested in
and the kinds of questions people like to ask me.
   I was ready. I suddenly had a gut feeling that we were all in for a great
time.
    Leaving an ashen-faced Tony in the car, I hopped out, ready to
embrace the experience. Somehow the audience picked up on my energy
and got much more than a speech. They got give-and-take that no one
who was there will soon forget. We had a hilarious time, and we walked
away having learned a few things as well.
    Tony Robbins turned out to be a terrific guy. Until I met him, I didn't
believe in him or trust him, but that was only because I was getting my
information secondhand. Having gotten to know him and his wife, I now
wholeheartedly endorse him--he is out to do good and help people. His
seminars are absolutely a happening, and after our successful experience
in Philadelphia, I agreed to make ten more appearances.
    All in all, it was a valuable lesson in public speaking: Think about your
audience first. The rest will fall into place.
    Granted, having useful information to convey will help, too. But
tuning in to people is the first step. I'm good at that, and I don't have to try
too hard. Even in my office, with a few people around, the conversation
will never be one-sided. I like to involve everyone and hear what they
have to say.
    So: Involve your audience. They will appreciate being included.

When you're speaking, it helps to be prepared. That may sound funny
after what I've just told you, but if you read every day, you will already be
prepared--maybe not for the fine points you are specifically speaking
about, but usually we are asked to speak about something we are experts
at or at least familiar with. Cover your bases mentally. Imagine yourself
being in the audience. What are you looking for? Being able to trade places
with the audience can open you up to a lot of ideas. Have examples and
references in mind to back up your statements, and make them as vivid as
possible for your listeners.
    Notes can sometimes function as a useful reference point, especially if
you're speaking to a large audience. If you're prepared, no one can tell
that you're using them. Ideally, you don't want to read a speech. For some
reason, no matter how good your delivery is when you read a speech, it's
usually boring. Everyone sees that you're reading it and it's never quite
the same as delivering it off the cuff. Notes offer the best of both worlds:
They keep you focused and moving in the right direction without turning
you into a stiff.


Be a good storyteller. People like stories, and they'll remember them. A
speech shouldn't become a lecture. Humor goes a long way, and it will


remind you and everyone else that we've all got a lot of things in common.
Storytelling is a skill, so work on it. It's helpful to listen to comedians. The
good ones can teach you the art of great timing.


Think about the common denominator. How can all of us relate to one
another? How can you enable your audience to relate to you and to what
you're saying? People see me as a rich and powerful person, but like most
people, I also have a daily routine and a family. I get stuck in traffic jams,
too. I've known some real gems and some real wackos. I have cranky
moments and bad days like everyone else. A lot of your experiences can be
understood and appreciated by your audience because they've had them,
too. Look for what you have in common and lead with it. You will create
an immediate bond, because they will realize they can relate to you.
When you are on the podium, you are the entertainer. People are there to
learn something, but also to be entertained. One reason Elvis Presley was
such a great entertainer is that he made every effort to tune in to his
audience--it was give-and-take all the way. Wayne Newton does that, too.
Even people who thought they wouldn't like Liberace became big fans
after experiencing his live shows. And nobody did it better than Sinatra.
    Some people call it charisma. I call it tuning in and delivering.

Study Regis Philbin. He is relaxed and funny, and he always relates to his
audiences. They love him. He's a perfect example of the give-and-take
that's necessary for successful public speaking. Regis doesn't just speak--
he shares. He's as magnanimous a performer as he is a person. Watch him,
pay attention, and you'll learn a lot.
Be able to poke fun at yourself. This will make you accessible to people
even if you are up on the stage and in the spotlight. We've all had
disasters in our lives, major and minor. To be able to laugh at them in
retrospect is healthy and helpful. Use the blips that we all encounter in our
lives to your advantage. I remember a particular question-and-answer
period that followed one of my speeches, during the time when Ivana and
I were going through our divorce and the tabloids were having a field day.
The first question was from a guy who asked, "You don't mind if I call
you The Donald, do you?"
    So I responded, "Not if you don't mind if I call you Ivana."
    We all had a good laugh and then proceeded to his real question.


Learn to think on your feet. Memorable public speaking involves a good
deal of spontaneity. It's a lot like negotiating--you have to focus on your
goals but remain flexible. A lot of people are terrific writers but not so
great at getting their ideas across orally. Writing is a form of thinking, and
so is speaking. The difference is that you don't have time to go back and
correct yourself when you're on stage. It's not a first draft and it's not a
rehearsal. Be prepared for the performance, because that's what's expected
of you.


Listen in your daily life. Every day can be a preparation for a speech or a
presentation. Have you ever said to yourself, "I'll have to remember that
one" after hearing someone say something particularly clever or unusual?
Even offhand comments that you overhear can be useful. Remember them.
Make notes if you must. Everything and everyone can become material. I
was in the back of an elevator once, behind a group of guys. Their
conversation was so vivid, so real, that I tuned in and tried to figure out
why they'd captured my attention. Aside from the fact that they had a
captive audience for a short amount of time, I realized that their speaking
rhythm was syncopated, quick, and to the point. What they were saying
wasn't all that fascinating, but their delivery was. They made a normally
mundane subject--what they were getting for lunch and how they were
getting it--seem interesting.


Have a good time. It's contagious. If your audience believes you are
enjoying what you are doing, they'll enjoy being in your company. If it's
an obvious chore to you, forget it and find someone else to speak for you.
If you're a busy executive, there's probably someone within your
organization who can speak effectively in your place. Sometimes when I'm
asked to speak and my schedule won't allow it, I will ask someone who
works for me if they'd be interested in filling in. Charlie Reiss, executive
VP of development in my organization, was a professor at Columbia
University before he came to work for me. He's a dynamic speaker, but I
wouldn't have known this if I hadn't asked him to help out when I was in
a bind. He has a gift for public speaking because he enjoys teaching and is
enthusiastic about what he does. At first I worried he might turn out to be
a bit pedantic, considering his background, but he wasn't. Everyone had a
good time.
    Another important aspect of having a good time: Before you speak,
remind yourself that it doesn't matter all that much. Don't feel that the
weight of the world is on you. Most of the people in the room don't care
how well or poorly you do. It's just not that important. It's merely a
speech--not an earthquake or a war. You'll have a better time and be a
better speaker if you keep it all in perspective.
    That said, public speaking and presentations may be a necessary step
on your ladder to success. For quick reference, here's my procedure for
discovering a talent you thought you didn't have:


    1.    Think about your audience first.

    2.    Get your audience involved.?
                    Change Your Altitude

When I say altitude, I'm not referring to my jet. It's my own interpretation
of the word attitude. I like flying because it gets me where I'm going, fast.
Likewise, if you have the right attitude, you can get where you're going,
fast.
    What's the altitude of your attitude? Is it high frequency or low
frequency? Having a high frequency will attune you to a wavelength that
exudes confidence and clear-sighted enthusiasm. I'm a firm believer that
this is half the battle of any enterprise.
    I'm a tough-minded optimist. I learned a long time ago that my
productivity was increased by a large percentage simply by learning to let
go of negativity in all forms as quickly as I could. My commitment to
excellence is thorough--so thorough that it negates the wavelength of
negativity immediately. I used to have to zap negativity mentally. By now,
it just bounces off me within a moment of getting near me. As you may
have heard, I don't like germs. I'm still waging a personal crusade to
replace the mandatory and unsanitary handshake with the Japanese
custom of bowing. To me, germs are just another kind of negativity.
    Negativity is also a form of fear, and fear can be paralyzing. On the
golf course, I've heard great athletes tell me that they can't putt. They can
hit a ball three hundred yards right down the middle of the fairway, but
they can't finish the hole by putting the ball three feet into the cup.
    Recently, I played with a man who is terrified of putting. He hit a
magnificent 235-yard shot and was seven feet from the cup. Then he
looked over at me and said, "Now the hard part begins."
    Another friend, also a great golfer, is paralyzed by his fear of losing his
ball. Each time we played a hole near a lake, he would look down and say
to his ball, "I have a feeling I'll never see you again."
    I have told these two guys that they must start thinking positively or
they will sabotage themselves.
    Very often, negative thinking stems from low self-esteem. You have to
work on this yourself. Maybe you've received a lot of hard knocks. I've
learned to deal with them because I get knocked a lot. Quickly see them
for what they are--knocks. But you don't have to open the door unless
you choose to. I've gotten to the point where I see knocks as opportunities
and as an insight into whoever is doing the knocking.
    One way to chase low altitude away is to think about how fortunate
you already are and how much you still have to look forward to. You can
better your best day at any time. Very surprising things can happen, but
you must--and I repeat must--be open to them. How can you fly if you've
already clipped your own wings?
    I don't have time to encourage as many people as I would like to, but
whenever it seems appropriate, I recommend The Power of Positive Thinking
by Norman Vincent Peale, one of my father's favorite books, and mine,
too. Some people may think it's old-fashioned, but what Peale has written
will always be true. He advocates faith over fear. Faith can overcome the
paralysis that fear brings with it.
    I can remember a time when I had a choice to make, when I was
billions of dollars in debt. I had to take one of two courses of action: a
fearful, defensive one or a faithful, riskier one. I carefully analyzed the
situation, realized what was causing the uneasy feeling of fear, and
immediately replaced it with blind faith, simply because I had nothing
else to go on at the time. Then I resolved that as long as I remained
positive and disciplined, things would work out.
    There was not much more I could do. I didn't know how it was going
to go, but I was determined to move forward, even though it wasn't easy.
Within a relatively short amount of time, the situation was settled
positively. I learned a lot from that and have since had a better
understanding of what courage really is. Without facing my own fear, I
would not have known.
    When I think of someone who is tough, I also think of someone who
has courage. People who persist have courage, because often it's a lot
easier to give up. Some of the bravest people I've met are children with
handicaps. I'm active with United Cerebral Palsy. What those kids deal
with is humbling, but they are enthusiastic and thrilled with every day
they've been given.
    You've been given a day, too. When you're down, look at it that way.
Another day can equal another chance. Sometimes, as obvious as it
sounds, we really do have to take things one day at a time. Immediately
after the events of September 11, we didn't know what was going to
happen, but we all kept going, one day at a time, and we're still moving
forward.
    Maybe you've gotten to the point where you think you can't get
through another day. That's shortsighted of you. You're missing the big
picture. You're on the runway, but your fuel supply is the problem. You
won't get off the ground without it. Feed yourself some positive thoughts
and you can take off at any time.
    Ever wonder what makes certain people keep going? I do. Abraham
Lincoln encountered a steady procession of setbacks, but he just kept at it.
Nothing deterred him. He must have had a lot of faith, because he didn't
receive much encouragement along the way. He's an excellent example of
someone who never gave up.

    The other extreme is the person who seems to run into obstacles with
the unerring aim of a marksman. I knew a guy who was remarkably
accident-prone. If there was something to run into, he'd find it. If there
was a hole in the ground, he'd break his foot by stumbling into it.
    Once, he was in such a slam-bang accident that he was hospitalized for
six months before being completely patched up. Finally, the day of his
release from the hospital arrived and it was decided that he should get an
ambulance ride home, just to be on the safe side. As the ambulance was
taking him home, it crashed into a car--another spectacular slam-bang
accident. My friend was immediately brought back to the hospital, in a
new ambulance dispatched to the scene of the disaster. What can I say?
Maybe he's just a really unlucky guy. Or maybe he's a loser. I know that
sounds harsh, but let's face it--some people are losers.
    The altitude level of losers is so low that they should walk around in
scuba gear all day. They are below sea level on the altitude map. We all
know people like that, and they might make great comedians because they
have so much material--but first they'd have to learn to be funny.
Honestly, I've known people who are such accomplished losers that I
think that's what they devote their time to:


    How can I be the biggest screwup possible?
    How can I prove the born loser theory to be correct?
    How can I defy the law of probability to make it an absolute disaster every
        time?
    How can I achieve a perfect record of total wipeouts?
    How far can I get at zero miles per hour?
    How can I reach the lowest frequency possible?
    How can I operate so that radar could never possibly find me even if I get lost,
which I probably will?
How to Get Rich

     These people need a new speedometer.
     Get going. Move forward. Aim high. Plan for a takeoff. Don't just sit
on the runway and hope someone will come along and push the airplane.
It simply won't happen.
     Change your attitude and gain some altitude. Believe me, you'll love it
up here.
              Start Visualizing Positively
Positive thoughts will create positive visuals. Have you ever heard
someone say "I can just see it!" when they are enthusiastic about
something? I know from experience that if I can see something as a
possibility, it has a much better chance of happening than if I can't see it
happening.
   Give your higher self a chance once in a while by giving your
possibility quota a boost.
   Keep a book of inspiring quotes nearby, so you can change a negative
wavelength the moment it descends on you. Here are some of my personal
favorites:
            Know everything you can about what you're doing.
                        --MY FATHER, FRED TRUMP


        I know the price of success: dedication, hard work, and an
       unremitting devotion to the things you want to see happen.
                          --FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT


       A leader has the right to be beaten, but never the right to be
                                surprised.
                               --NAPOLEON

                 Let's avoid subtlety on this one.
   --CHARLIE REISS, Executive Vice President of Development, The
                        Trump Organization


 He who looks outside his own heart dreams, he who looks inside
                      his own heart awakens.
                            --CARL JUNG


         Exciting is a dull word for the business we're in.
                           --FRED TRUMP


   You're the only guy who can wear a cashmere overcoat to a
               baseball game and get away with it.
                          --REGIS PHILBIN


         Imagination is more important than knowledge.
                        --ALBERT EINSTEIN


  Continuous effort--not strength or intelligence--is the key to
                     unlocking our potential.
                      --WINSTON CHURCHILL


               I remember when I was the Donald.
                         --DONALD DUCK
I find reading psychology and self-help books useful. Carl Jung's theories
fascinate me and keep my mind open to my own--and the collective--
unconscious.
    Reading his books can also be a good form of self-defense.
    There's a lot we don't know about ourselves. Likewise, there's a lot we
may not know about everyone else. Jung used the word psyche to refer to
both the conscious and the unconscious processes. (That's where the word
psycho comes from, by the way.) I first became aware of Jung through an
acquaintance who had endured some extreme ordeals, yet he remained
calm. I couldn't fathom where he got this sort of "grace under fire"
demeanor, so I asked him, and he told me that Jung's ideas kept him
centered.
    My friend put it like this: "Donald, I've learned from my experiences.
As a safety factor, I very often see other people as a revolver that could be
pointed at me. They are the gun. I, however, am the trigger. So I speak and
tread carefully. It's an effective visual aid to avoid conflicts, as I was
unwittingly among people who were actually psychos underneath their
dignified personas. We never know what will trigger another person's
killer instinct. It can be something that happened when they were five
years old. So avoid being the trigger, and the revolver will not be a threat."
    This synopsis of his philosophy made such an impact on me that I
immediately started reading about Carl Jung. I'm glad I did, because it

helped me in my business as well as in my personal life. We are all
evolving human beings, and being aware of this gave me a big boost
toward maturity. It also made me less inclined to be surprised by so-called
aberrant behavior. I have to stress that I am not cynical, but I am aware. I
hate being in situations where I'm asking myself, How could this have
happened? This reminds me of my favorite quote from Napoleon about
being surprised: A good leader shouldn't be.
    You have to know yourself as well as know other people to be an
effective leader. For me, reading the work of Carl Jung was a step in the
right direction. If someone had told me in business school that studying
psychology would be important for financial success, I would not have
believed it. My friend's story changed that, and I am grateful to him for
such cogent advice. The relatively small number of hours I've spent
reading Jung have been more than worth it. Start with his autobiography,
Memories, Dreams, Reflections, and you will be in for a fascinating time
while simultaneously fine-tuning your intuition and instincts. You will
also gain a technique for seeing into--versus reading into--the people
around you. Believe me, this will serve you well on many levels.
    The word persona has an interesting root. It comes from the Latin word
meaning "mask." This, however, is not derogatory. It's necessary. Each of
us has a persona. We need it for survival. It's the face we put on for public
use, and it can be intentional or unconscious. For example, a salesman
who has lost his entire family in an accident is, naturally, devastated. But
to work effectively with his customers, he must appear cheerful and
confident. That's part of his persona. It's a survival device.
    The only danger is when people become their personae. That means
something has been shut off somewhere along the line, and these people
will end up hiding behind the false personality that works professionally.
As I am very much in the public eye, this hit home and I gave it
considerable thought. Fortunately, I am aware of my public side as well as

my private side, and, while I'm not one for hiding much, I know there are
several dimensions in which I operate. That's one reason I feel at home at
The Trump Organization. The people I work with day in and day out
know I'm not entirely a glam guy. They see how hard I work. One person
said I am very much like a Mormon, which I took as high praise.
   Anyway, reading Jung will give you insights into yourself and the
ways in which you and other people operate.
                            Have an Ego

As you know, this rule has been easy for me to follow. But hear me out--
I've got a good reason for it.
     Having a well-developed ego, contrary to popular opinion, is a
positive attribute. It is the center of our consciousness and serves to give
us a sense of purpose. I remember saying to someone, "Show me someone
with no ego and I'll show you a big loser." I was trying to stir things up
and provoke a reaction, but I later realized the basic idea is on target.
     The ego works to keep our conscious and unconscious aspects in
balance. Too much either way can be detrimental. No ego means very little
life force, and too much means a dictatorial personality. Keep your ego in
a healthy balance, for your own well-being as well as for those around
you. Strive for wholeness. It's an intelligent approach to life and business.
     Understanding how egos work can be a great tool. Did you ever notice
how you can deflate an opponent by simply saying, "Yeah, whatever you
say..."? By doing this, you are gently assuming a no-ego position, which
disarms the other person while at the same time taking the wind out of
their sails. It gives you the peace of mind necessary to allow you to
concentrate on something more important than dealing with someone
who is playing God.
     Sometimes, rather than confronting a tyrant or a psycho directly, it's
more effective to keep the knowledge to yourself and proceed accordingly,
behind the scenes.

    We've all heard the saying that knowledge is power. The intelligent
use of that power is crucial in the business world, and it's just as
important in your personal life. Your mind can build castles--just make
sure the foundations are in place first. You, and the people around you,
will be grateful for that.

               Keep Critics in Perspective


In any job, you will be criticized at some point. Let's face it: Nobody but a
total masochist wants to be criticized.
     There is constructive criticism, and then there is destructive criticism.
Here's how to assess both types:
     1.    First of all, consider the source. Should this person's opinion
even matter to you?
     2.    If it does matter to you, take a few minutes to consider whether
anything helpful can result from the criticism. Others can often see things
that we have overlooked. Use their keen eyes to your advantage.
     3.    Critics serve their purpose. Sometimes they serve a larger
purpose, and sometimes they serve their own purpose. American Idol judge
Simon Cowell can be critical of the performers on the program, but he's
fair and he's honest, and I don't think American Idol would work without
him. Simon was nice enough to compliment The Apprentice in an interview.
"I think it's absolutely fantastic," he told the Daily News. "I think [Trump]
is superb on the show. He's not hamming it up. He's just playing himself
and that's very hard to do on television." As I said, Simon is a fair and
honest critic, and I am a fan of his.
     4.    Everyone has an opinion. In most cases, it's not worth the paper
it's written on.
     5.    If the opinion is worth the paper it's written on, and it's written
in a paper people are buying and reading, then realize that if people didn't
find you interesting enough for public consumption, they wouldn't be
taking the time to criticize you. Think of their criticism as a compliment,
proof of your significance.
   Homework Is Required and There Will
                               Be a Test

People who think achieving success is a linear A-to-Z process, a straight
shot to the top, simply aren't in touch with reality. There are very few
bona fide overnight success stories. It just doesn't work that way.
    Success appears to happen overnight because we all see stories in
newspapers and on TV about previously unknown people who suddenly
become famous. But consider a sequoia tree that has been growing for
several hundred years. Just because a television crew one day decides to
do a story about that tree doesn't mean it didn't exist before.
    In 1955, Glenn Gould, the classical pianist from Toronto, rocketed to
international fame by recording Bach's Goldberg Variations. He was
young and unusual, but he had already been practicing the piano for close
to twenty years. He may have seemed like an overnight sensation to the
general public, but anyone who's been working at something for twenty
years isn't likely to agree with that assessment.
    I have to admit that my knowledge of classical music is limited, but
from what little I've read on the subject, I know that the process of
becoming a classical musician is a long and demanding one. The amount
of practice hours required to master an instrument is astounding, and also
never ending. How do they do it? I'm not sure, but I would guess that
passion plays a large part.
    Every industry and profession has its bottom line for what is required
to succeed. If you can't stand to practice every day, being a musician is out
of the question. If you hate to exercise, being an athlete is not for you.
    In business--every business--the bottom line is understanding the
process. If you don't understand the process, you'll never reap the
rewards of the process. You'll never last long enough to achieve your
"overnight" success.
    Part of the process is doing your homework. You have to know what
you're getting into first. That was one of my father's strongest beliefs.
We've all heard the phrase "You're barking up the wrong tree." It brings
to mind a funny image, but in reality it can be embarrassing. Not doing
your homework can result in something analogous, so do a few things
first to avoid this.
    We can learn from our mistakes, but it's better to learn from our
successes. When I hear people say, "Well, it was an interesting experience,"
I can usually safely assume they are referring to something that didn't
work out the way they'd planned. I don't find my goof-ups to be amusing
or interesting.
    Can you imagine hearing a surgeon say, "Well, it didn't go quite right,
but I sure learned a lot"? I wouldn't want that guy operating on me. The
same applies to anyone in business, because if you're in business, it's not
just your money involved, but very often the money and well-being of
others as well. In my business, I can't take chances. If something is not
quite right with the design or construction of a superstructure, a lot of
people could be injured or killed. I've got to know what's going on. Bottom
line, it will be my responsibility.
    People see the finished product. Wow, a skyscraper! What goes into it
is another story. Construction isn't glamorous. It's a serious and often
dangerous endeavor. Fortunately, I understood this from my earliest days

in the business, so there's a certain gravity in my approach to the
construction of any building.
    That's where having learned to do my homework comes in handy. It's
a necessary requirement, not an extracurricular course to enhance my
productivity. Not only do I have to know exactly what I'm doing, but I've
also got to make sure I find contractors who know exactly what they're
doing as well. That's why I'm tough on them, and that's why I'm equally
tough on myself. A lot of lives are at stake in our work. We don't want any
"interesting" experiences!
    We all know what it's like to pretend to study. There are some courses
in school that just don't hold your attention. If you are choosing a career,
keep that in mind. What most holds your attention?
    Consider a pyramid. Did you ever notice how large and solid the
foundation is? Did you notice the carefully graduated levels that
eventually lead to the pinnacle? Now turn the pyramid upside down.
That's a representation of topsy-turvy thinking. You don't start at the top.
You start with the foundation--the stronger, the better.
    The world moves along at such a fast clip that we have little patience
when things are slow, whether it's the line at a supermarket or Internet
access. We've become intolerant of those things that cannot be accelerated
or skipped entirely. I can't speed up the foundation work for a building,
nor can I expect to play piano like Glenn Gould just because I want to.
    Know the limitations as well as the possibilities of everything you do.
Find out as much as you can yourself about what you plan to do, and don't
expect anyone to act as your favorite grandmother in wanting what's best
for you. Most people want what's best for themselves, not for you. If those
people have already spent a great deal of effort on their homework, why
should they share it with you?

             Listen to a Ping-Pong Game

I learned a long time ago to listen, but to listen judiciously. You can learn a
lot from the people around you--you just have to be discerning about the
information that comes your way. A lot of the so-called information I
receive turns out to be someone's personal opinion. We're all entitled to
our two cents' worth, but sometimes that's all it amounts to.
    Be aware of the marketplace. Know what's going on now. That's one
reason I devote several hours a day to reading. That's how long it takes to
both keep up with current events and learn from the greats in history.
How can you expect to be successful if your idea of what's happening in
the world is vague or nonexistent? That's like saying, "I know that
September 11 happened, but I choose not to acknowledge it. It gets in the
way of my positive outlook on things." That approach is fine if you're a
professional fairy-tale writer.
    There's another side to everything, so develop your ability to see it--
or even hear it. I once met a young woman from Hong Kong who worked
on Wall Street in emerging markets. She had an uncanny ability to predict
certain events in the marketplace--it seemed almost like a psychic gift to
me.
    One day, I asked her how she could be so on target in her work and
she likened knowing and predicting the global markets to listening to a
Ping-Pong game.
    At first, I thought she was joking, or perhaps just being evasive, but
she went on to explain her theory.
    "I'm not kidding you, Donald. When I was growing up, we had a
Ping-Pong table in the den, and I could hear the games my brothers would
play, sometimes for hours, when I was studying in my room. I discovered
that I could discern the tilt of the paddle, and the outcome of the volley,
just by the sound of the Ping-Pong ball being hit, and the sound of it
landing on the other side of the net. I knew the results, the repercussions,
and the recovery that would be required to successfully handle what had
been dealt.
    "Later, I applied this to my work in emerging markets and found I
could often predict what would be happening just by concentrating on
world events and thinking of the sound of Ping-Pong balls being hit
around the globe. Ping-Pong is really the reason behind my success."
    I was astounded. That's my idea of tuning in.
    I must add that this young woman had all the education in finance
that her position required. She was a bright student. What set her apart
from everyone else was the way she applied her knowledge and her keen
analysis of the game of Ping-Pong to her work. She may even have done
this on an unconscious level initially, but tapping into this resource gave
her an uncanny edge. The lesson I learned from her story is never to
underestimate the power of awareness.
    Find out what other people have done to succeed, and then be
prepared to do ten times more. There are no guarantees.
    Comparing ourselves to others is a waste of time. I've heard people
say, "Well, Mr. Lucky had a million dollars before he was thirty and I've
worked just as hard as he has." Well, Mr. Lucky has nothing to do with
you, your possibilities, your success, or your failure. Don't let anyone else
be your yardstick. That's taking power away from yourself in a big way.

   You've got your own personal blueprint to attend to. We can't all be
Tiger Woods, J. Lo, Bill Gates, or whoever it is you would like to be, and
sometimes that's a hard fact to face. You may have already experienced
defeat. That happens. It happens a lot! But the fact that you have
aspirations to begin with is putting you on the road to success right now.
No matter how defeated you may feel, you've still got a chance. But it
won't happen by itself. Get to work!
   I'll sum up with two of my favorite quotes:


             There are no short cuts to anywhere worth going.
                             --BEVERLY SILLS


                   The harder I work, the luckier I get.
                             --GARY PLAYER

           Reflect for Three Hours a Day

I read an article recently in which European exchange students living in
the United States all agreed on one aspect of American life: The noise level
here is very high. We seem to avoid quiet moments. Even lapses in
conversation are quickly filled with banter or some kind of interference.
    It made me realize how much I need a certain amount of quiet time--
usually about three hours a day--in order to stay balanced. It's time I use
to read and reflect, and I always feel renewed and refreshed by this. It also
gives me material to feed my extroverted nature.
    For me, the early morning hours are best for this kind of reflection. I'm
an early riser, usually up by 5A.M., which gives me a few hours to read
newspapers and magazines of all sorts--local, national, and international.
    In the evening, after a black-tie dinner, I'll unwind by stopping at my
local Korean grocery for snacks--potato chips and pretzels. That will be
my dinner. I rarely get to eat at those black-tie events, and I'd rather have
the junk food, anyway.
    Once I'm home, I read books--usually biographies. Now and then I
like to read about philosophers--particularly Socrates, who emphasizes
that you should follow the convictions of your conscience, which basically
means thinking for yourself, a philosophy I tend to agree with. It may not
make you too popular, but it's essential for lucid thought, and it's a good
way to avoid being part of a herd mentality of any sort.


    I read as much as I can, but not as much as I'd like, because there are
so many constraints on my time. I am grateful for the contribution Oprah
Winfrey has made to our country in regard to reading. In my book The
America We Deserve, I wrote about the deplorable state of reading in this
country. Since Oprah decided to do something about it, there has been a
noticeable upswing in book sales, and writers are once again considered to
be cool people rather than dinosaurs. I cannot thank Oprah enough for
what she has done, and I hope every person in this country realizes the
positive influence she has had. We all owe Oprah a big thank-you, and I'd
like to lead the crowd in saying so.
    I like movies and television as much as anyone else, but reading is a
form of replenishment for me. The potato chips and pretzels help, too.

                  Dress for Your Culture

I used to pride myself on buying very inexpensive suits and other
clothing. It just didn't make sense to pay thousands of dollars for great
clothes when you could buy something for a hundred dollars. Who would
know the difference?
    Over the years, I've learned that this is wrongheaded. I now buy very
high-quality shoes, and they seem to last forever, whereas the cheapos
used to wear out quickly and always looked as cheap as the price I'd paid
for them. The same is true for suits. These days, I go for Brioni, whose
service and attention to detail is second to none. They supplied most of the
clothing for The Apprentice, so I have tremendous loyalty to them (and I
got a good deal). They also make great overcoats.
    The way we dress says a lot about us before we ever say a word. To
me, dressing successfully means understanding your environment:
knowing the culture and making an effort to reflect--and respect--it.
    The "look" in Beverly Hills may be attractive, but that same look may
be met with scorn on Wall Street. Success is hard enough to achieve
without showing up on casual Friday in a three-piece suit. Don't put up
unnecessary hurdles for yourself.
    Make it easy for people to take you seriously. I would wonder about
someone who arrived for a meeting or an interview and was dressed
inappropriately for the culture of that particular workplace--for example,
a guy showing up at Trump Tower in a cowboy hat, boots, and a fringed
cowhide jacket. It's more about culture than style. Be aware of your
surroundings and dress accordingly.
    Some people can get away with anything. Most people can't. Micha
Koeppel, who works at The Trump Organization, usually looks like a
Canadian Mountie in full regalia. To look at him, you'd think he was
about to lead an expedition through the Rockies. Then again, my buildings
are tall, and he scouts the right locations for them, so maybe there's a
reason for his getups. It works for him, and he does a good job, so I don't
mind.
    It's certainly not groundbreaking news that the early victories by the
women on The Apprentice were, to a very large extent, dependent on their
sex appeal. The fact that sex sells is nothing new. However, women are
judged harshly when they go too far, so be careful in how you present
yourself. If you want to be acknowledged for your intelligence as well as
your beauty, don't stand in your own way. Not everyone can tune out a
knock-em-dead appearance. Think of how you would like to be perceived,
and proceed from there.
    I tend to notice what people are wearing only if they look
exceptionally well put together--or exceptionally badly put together. It
has more to do with style than which designer they may or may not be
wearing. As I said, expensive clothing usually looks like it was worth the
price.
    Have you ever noticed how we tend to pigeonhole people in certain
professions by their appearance? It's a form of shorthand to just be able to
say "your basic accountant type" or "a typical advertising type" when
describing someone. Every profession has a certain look or standard. Just
say "banker" and you've saved yourself a hundred words. It's not always
fair, but that's how it works.
    However, you don't have to be a typical anything.

    For example, Frank McKinney looks like a cross between a rock star
and a surfer dude. You would never guess by looking at him that he's a
real estate entrepreneur who sells ultra-high-end residential real estate in
Florida. When he speeds by you on his motorcycle in his Versace vest with
his two feet of blond hair blowing in the wind, you can bet he's on his way
to a business meeting. But that's Frank's style, and he's very successful.
    I'm a conservative dresser due to business considerations and to save
time. I enjoy flamboyance in other people--I'm more interested in what a
beautiful woman might wear than in anything I might ever put on.
    Be aware that your attire can literally become a costume. I've known a
lot of terrific-looking scoundrels and a lot of well-dressed bums.
    Being tasteful is being tasteful, no matter what line of work you're in.
Sure, it helps to have the money to buy great clothes, but a little style can
go a long way.

Here I am on top of Trump World Tower at the United Nations Plaza. I like to check up on
                          things, even without my helicopter.


     Be Your Own Best Financial Adviser

Many people go out and hire financial advisers, but I have also seen a lot
of those advisers destroy people.
    Athletes, in particular, make a great deal of money at a very young
age. Too often, some manager squanders the athlete's fortune and they
wind up in their thirties with nothing left but their past glory--and are
forced to get jobs just to survive.
    A good friend of mine and truly one of the greatest basketball players
who has ever lived, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, was in the NBA for over
twenty years, only to find that some bad advice had destroyed much of his
wealth. I don't know whether it was theft or stupidity, but it was a shame.
    Herschel Walker is an athlete who signed big contracts, with both the
USFL and NFL. One day, he came to me and told me he was going to
invest in a fast-food franchise. I told him, "Herschel, you are a friend of
mine, but if you do that, I will not speak to you again." Because of the
relationship we had (and continue to have), he decided not to make the
investment. The company went bankrupt two years later. Herschel is now
a wealthy man, and he thanks me every time I see him.
    When it comes to picking a financial adviser, rely on your own
judgment based on what you read in reliable publications like The Wall
Street Journal, Forbes, Business Week, and Fortune. They are usually terrific,
even though, on occasion, they say some negative things about me. I'm
angry at Fortune at the moment--and for good reason--but even Fortune

sometimes manages to awake from its stupor to report something
worthwhile. I'm particularly impressed with an editor there named
Geoffrey Colvin, who is also the host of Wall Street Week on PBS and has
written perceptively about corporate restructuring.
    The New York Post has developed a truly great business section--and
one that is fun to read. Lately, The New York Times's coverage of business
has gone right to the top!
    If you read these financial publications for a while, you will start to
pick up on the cadence and get a feel for what's happening in the market,
which funds are the best, and who the best advisers are.
    Stay with the winners. Often, you will read about somebody who has
made money quickly and then relies on one of his friends to invest his
fortune. That friend has no track record, and if it weren't for his
connection to a rich investor, he wouldn't have any money. Beware of
instant stars in the world of finance. Trust the people who do it again and
again, and who are consistently ranked high by the four best institutional
business media outlets. But trust your own common sense first.

                          Invest Simply

There are numerous firms that provide comprehensive charts and other
information on the best returns from certain financial advisers and funds.
Study those charts, not over the short term (maybe they just got lucky) but
over a fifteen- or twenty-year period.
    Invest with the help of a major firm like Goldman Sachs, Morgan
Stanley, Bear Stearns, or Merrill Lynch. These are your hard-earned
savings at stake. Don't take unnecessary risks.
    Generally there is a reason for success. When you look at legends like
Alan "Ace" Greenberg and Warren Buffett and marvel at how good they
are, you will likely see that what makes them so successful is the same
quality you should apply to every one of your own investments--common
sense.
    I've read many of Warren Buffett's annual reports. In every case, what
fascinates me is that he is able to reduce things to the simplest of terms.
    Many accomplished Wall Street gurus can make you dizzy with talk of
intricate financial maneuverings. They might impress you with their
sophisticated computerized trading results, their fifty percent returns from
options on products that may not even exist yet. Fortunes are won and lost
every day in these markets, but as far as I'm concerned, those folks would
be just as successful if they ditched their hedge funds and put all their
money on their favorite roulette number at the Trump Taj Mahal Casino in
Atlantic City.
   You paid good money for this book, and I know you're expecting
sophisticated investment advice. The wisest thing I can tell you is to invest
only in products you understand, with people you know you can trust.
Sometimes the best investments are the ones you don't make.
              Get a Prenuptial Agreement


I've said it before--I even wrote a chapter on the art of the prenup in one
of my other books--but I'll say it again for anyone about to propose: A
prenuptial agreement doesn't mean that you won't always love your
spouse. It doesn't mean that you have doubts about the person's integrity
or questions about the relationship. All it means is that you recognize that
life, especially the parts involving love and business, can be complicated.
People have a right to protect their assets. If you own your own business
and you're facing a difficult divorce without having secured a prenuptial
agreement, your negligence could jeopardize the livelihoods of your
employees. I know plenty of women who are supporting their husbands,
and this advice applies equally to both sexes.
     If I hadn't signed a prenup, I would be writing this book from the
perspective of somebody who lost big. We needed a bus to get Ivana's
lawyers to court. It was a disaster, but I had a solid prenup, and it held up.
     A friend of mine is married to a woman who stands only five-foot-
two, but he's petrified of what she will do to him in court, all because he
didn't get a prenup. Before he met this woman, he'd had four unsuccessful
marriages, yet he told me, "Donald, I'm so in love with this woman that I
don't need a prenuptial agreement." I didn't have the courage to tell him
what I was thinking to myself: Loser!
     A year later, the marriage was over and he was going through hell.
When I saw him, he looked like a frightened puppy.
   There's nothing wrong with common sense. Be like Thoreau and
simplify.


                Cut Out the Middleman


Wayne Newton is a great friend of mine, and he made a lot of money over
the years. Unfortunately, given terrible advice, he lost his money and was
forced to declare bankruptcy. Meanwhile, his lawyers were eating him
alive.
    He called me and said, "Donald, I heard you owed $9.2 billion to a
hundred banks in the early nineties and you never went bankrupt. How
did you do it? Because I just can't seem to get out of this mess. My lawyers
are making a fortune and the banks are impossible."
    I asked Wayne how many banks were involved. He told me it was
three. "You're lucky," I said. "I had ninety-nine banks and I made a point
of becoming best friends with everybody at every bank. You have to do
the same."
    I gave him some more advice, which he has generously acknowledged
in many interviews. I told him, "Wayne, you are a major celebrity. Have
your secretary call the three banks and get the person who is really in
charge, not the figurehead, and personally talk to all three people. Arrange
a meeting with them, ideally a dinner with them and their families. Get to
know them. At the end of this period of time, they'll like you. They'll be
impressed by you because you are a celebrity. They may control a lot of
money, but they don't control fame, and people are impressed by fame.
Forget your lawyers. They are never going to want to settle the case,


because then their legal fees stop. You must do it yourself. Call the
bankers. Become friendly with the bankers. And make a deal."
     Wayne called me three weeks later. He'd had dinner with all three
bankers and said they were among the nicest people he'd ever met. They
brought their wives and children. Later, he cut deals with every one of
them. The banks were taken care of over a period of time, the lawyers
didn't get any richer, and today Wayne is doing fantastically well.
     You're probably wondering how this rule applies to your life if you
are not headlining a major Las Vegas show. Here's how: Wayne took
control of the situation. He appealed to the people in charge. Most of us
need lawyers at some point in our lives, and we all have to deal with large
bureaucracies. But sometimes you need to go right to the top, and you
need to do it yourself. You don't have to sing "Danke schon" to make a
sincere personal approach.
     Of course, there will be times when lawyers are essential. Some people
are scoundrels.1 In those instances, sue the bastards. But whenever
possible, settle. It saves a lot of time for everyone involved.




1I have come to hate doctors. I think that, generally, they are a bunch of money-grubbing dogs. I
can tell you about countless instances when doctors have ruined people's lives. As an example, a
person I am very fond of had a foot injury that I believe should have healed naturally, but instead,
the doctor operated on it, fitting pins and plates into the foot. Now, after over a year of
convalescence, this person is having a hard time walking. I think that suing a doctor like this
would qualify as a worthwhile legal expense. (Recently, the patient saw this doctor walking on
the very expensive and chic Worth Avenue in Palm Beach and spending lots of money.) This is
one of many bad doctors I know of--there are too many others to name. I just can't stand the
bastards.
      Teach Your Children the Value of a
                                 Dollar


My kids know the value of money from example. They see how hard I
work. I don't talk about it with them because I don't have to--they have
eyes.
    They see the way I live. I turn off the lights whenever I leave the office.
I'm always happy to get a good deal, whether I'm buying a building or
buying supplies at Duane Reade. (Trust me: You can get a good deal on
shaving cream there.)
    I always remember the example my parents set for me. I could see their
determination and discipline. They didn't have to harp on it. I try to be the
way they were.
    My parents were frugal in the sense that they knew it wasn't easy to
make money, and that it should be treated with respect. They lived well
but simply, and were not flamboyant in their spending.
    We rarely went out to eat. We took relatively few elaborate vacations.
    They emphasized schooling and education. We had a solid family life,
and I remember feeling very fortunate. Each of us was expected to
contribute something not only to the family as a whole, but to society.
That is a Trump family value that is ingrained in me, and one I've tried to
live up to.

   My children have benefited from affluence, as I did, but it's surprising
how unspoiled they are in many ways. They have budgets and live within
them. They have limits on their credit cards, and they have them more for
protection in an emergency than for anything else. When they were
growing up, both of my sons earned extra money during their summer
vacations by mowing lawns, cutting trees, moving stones, and doing

landscaping work at the Seven Springs estate in Westchester. Ivanka
attended the School of American Ballet, which requires an enormous
amount of discipline and training.
     College kids today are more money savvy, perhaps, than kids from
earlier generations. They seem serious about their money. This is a good
sign, because the sooner you understand the value of money, the more
likely you are to possess large amounts of it.
     If your children see you being careless with money, they will assume
it's okay for them to be careless. Children watch. That's how they learn.
Your priorities will often become their priorities. Any family can have a
wild card or two, but on the whole, it's been proven that children will
learn from what they see.
     If you obviously enjoy going to Las Vegas to gamble, it's likely they'll
think this is a good thing and will follow suit. If you like going to Carnegie
Hall and bring the kids along, they'll think this is an exciting event
because you do. Children inherently like to please, so think about the
values you exhibit. Sooner or later, kids will form their own tastes, but the
initial exposure is important.

     I spent a good deal of time with my children--Don Jr., Ivanka, and
Eric--when they were growing up, because we all lived together. We
remain very close. I spend less time with Tiffany, as she lives in California
with her mother. I do try to include them in my travels and activities as
much as possible.
     They know they are always welcome to join the family business. Don
Jr. began working full-time at The Trump Organization in September 2001.
"Trumps are builders," he told Barbara Walters in a recent interview. I
hope Ivanka, Eric, and Tiffany might also consider a career with us, but
it's their decision entirely.
     I have very high standards, but so do my kids. They're all high
achievers who enjoy working and are not goof-offs in any sense of the
word. I wonder why I'm so lucky.

    Not teaching your kids about money is like not caring whether they
eat. If they enter the world without financial knowledge, they will have a
much harder go of it. Make sure you let them in on your way of thinking
about money--how you manage expenses, how you save, where you
invest.
    Let them know that having money isn't necessarily a sign of greed. It's
an important element for survival. Just getting a first apartment can be a
lesson for your kids: They suddenly learn about security deposits! Equip
them for life as best you can. Buy them a subscription to Money or some
other personal-finance magazine. Give them incentives for saving their
allowance.
    If they don't learn about money from you, who's going to teach them?

     If You Have Them by the Balls, Their
            Hearts and Minds Will Follow
In this part of the book, I want to tell you about some of my favorite deals
and the essential rules of negotiation they exemplify.
    First, though, here's my basic philosophy of how deals are done: It's
all about persuasion, not power.
    Power is merely the ability to convince people to accept your ideas.
    Just because I am a successful businessman doesn't mean I always get
my way. It's true that I don't have to be as vociferous about things as
before. I don't have to act like a bulldozer to get attention. But I have to
coax and make my case just like any other negotiator.
    An interviewer from Brazil recently asked me what the best parts and
the worst parts of having so much money and success were. I had the
same answer to both questions: the effect it has on people.
    Anyone in a position of power will probably agree with me. There are
pluses and minuses.
    The plus side is that people will listen to you more readily than if you
aren't on the map financially. The minus side is that they will reduce you
to one dimension and keep you there.
    Power is not just about calling all the shots. It's about ability. You can
call all the shots, but if they're bad ones, no one will take much notice after
a while. Know what you're doing. That's where the real power comes from.
    Convincing others has a lot to do with understanding negotiation.
Study the art of persuasion. Practice it. Develop an understanding of its
profound value across all aspects of life.
    Don't expect people to believe your blarney simply because you're
good at delivering it. The boardroom is not the pub down on the corner.
    Make it easy on the people you are trying to convince. Give them
readily accessible metaphors and analogies. If you are too far over their
heads, they'll feel frustrated or, worse, inferior. Let them know you're all
on the same level in some way. Use humor. It's a great icebreaker. I
sometimes tell people that I wish our meeting had been yesterday, because
I was having a great hair day and they missed it!
    Convincing other people of how wonderful you are and how lofty
your ideas are is a good way to convince them to tune out or, better yet, to
escape from you as soon as possible. We all need to have a healthy dose of
confidence to be convincing, but don't bulldoze. If you do, you may see a
lot of people in front of you at first, but the room will soon be empty.
    As the adage goes, "There's a fine line between acceptance and
resignation." You want people to accept your ideas, not merely be resigned
to them because they think they can't fight back or are just plain exhausted
by you. Don't browbeat them into believing you. Let them think the
decision is theirs. It will give them a feeling of control.
    Here is the golden rule of negotiating:
    He who has the gold makes the rules.
    If you walk into a negotiation and know nothing about the other party,
let them talk, listen to their tone, observe their body language, and
determine whether they really want to make a deal or just show you how
smart they are.
    Most negotiations should proceed calmly, rather than in a hostile
manner. However, sometimes a negotiation works best after a few screams
and some table pounding.
     The best negotiators are chameleons. Their attitude, demeanor,
approach, and posture in a negotiation will depend on the person on the
other side of the table.
     If the other party to the transaction wants to acquire something you
own, let them convince you that you really don't want it or need it. In
doing so, they'll convince you of just how badly they want it.
     Money is not always the only consideration for exchange in the sale of
an asset. Think beyond the traditional boundaries.
     Learn the value of saying no. View any conflict as an opportunity.
     Most important, know the party on the other side of the table before
sitting down with them. Research who you're dealing with, how they
negotiate, and what they want from you.
     Now you're ready to deal. The following stories illustrate these basic
rules.

     Consider What the Other Side Wants

One of the best deals I ever made was the acquisition of the tallest
building in lower Manhattan, a 1.3-million-square-foot landmark known
as 40 Wall Street.
    I got it for $1 million, and the negotiation was all about timing and
intuition.
    In the 1960s and 1970s, 40 Wall Street was truly a hot property--a fully
occupied building. Then in the 1980s, it was bought by Ferdinand Marcos,
who was busy dealing with a revolution in the Philippines. The skyscraper
at 40 Wall Street fell into decline, proving once again that a business
should never be run by a dictator, especially a real one about to be booted
from power.
    Then the Resnicks, a prominent real estate family, descended on 40
Wall Street, but after a long period of negotiation, it became clear that the
Resnicks and Citibank weren't going to make a deal and that 40 Wall
Street would be back on the block. I wanted very much at this time to
make my move, but this was in the early 1990s and I was in no position to
do so. The real estate market was terrible, and my own financial straits
were woeful.
    The next buyer was the Kinson Company, a group from Hong Kong.
They made a great deal, and after the purchase was complete, I requested
a meeting with them to discuss a possible partnership. They weren't
interested in a partnership, but they did want to make 40 Wall Street the
downtown equivalent of Trump Tower, including a public atrium. It
sounded like a beautiful idea. However, what they would do with the
steel columns that supported a seventy-two-story building never seemed
to enter their minds. I was dumbfounded.
    As you can probably guess, the Kinson group proved to be relatively
clueless about renovating, running, and leasing out a New York City
skyscraper. They weren't in the real estate business to begin with--they
were mostly in apparel--and they were in way over their heads. They
poured tens of millions of dollars into the building but were getting
nowhere. They had problems with tenants, contractors, suppliers,
architects, even the owners of the land, a prominent family from Germany,
the Hinnebergs. Eventually, Kinson wanted out, and they called me.
    It was now 1995 and the market still wasn't so good. Kinson had every
reason to want to get out, and they wanted to do it quickly and quietly. So
the negotiations began, with me offering them $1 million in addition to
assuming and negotiating their liens. I also made the deal subject to a
restructured ground lease with the Hinneberg family.
    They accepted my terms without question.
    Why? Because they wanted out--and fast. They knew it and I knew it,
and because I knew it, the negotiation was easy.
    There was another crucial aspect to this deal, which proves the
importance of knowing what the other side wants: All of the prior
leaseholders had dealt with the agent of the Hinneberg family. The agent
insisted on increasing the rent and raised other financial obstacles that he
said the owner insisted upon. I had to see for myself what the Hinnebergs
wanted--was it money, or something else? If you want the truth, go to the
source and skip the translation by the intermediary.
    I flew to Germany with Bernie Diamond, my general counsel, for a
face-to-face meeting with the owner, who seemed impressed by the fact
that I would travel across the Atlantic to see him. I learned that what he


really wanted was peace of mind in connection with his ownership of the
land, but all he was getting was aggravation and litigation. I told him I
would agree to turn the present disaster into a first-class office building if
he would forgo all rent during the renovation period and revise the lease
to permit rental to quality subtenants and bank financing for part of the
building improvements. He agreed--and it was the first of many instances
that confirmed my belief that Walter, Christian, and Walter Hinneberg Jr.
are among the finest people with whom I've ever done business.
    Very soon after acquiring 40 Wall Street, the markets turned for the
better, and the downtown area experienced a renaissance in terms of both
commercial and residential properties and developments.
    I make a great deal of money from 40 Wall Street. Aside from owning
the most beautiful building in lower Manhattan, I have the added
attraction of owning a particularly lucrative one, all because I watched the
property carefully for decades, waiting for my moment, and knew what
the other side was thinking.

             Be Reasonable and Flexible




A good negotiator must be flexible to be successful.
    When I bought 40 Wall Street, it was virtually vacant. I told the
existing leasing broker, a friend of mine, that I was going to renovate the
building and get tenants. I offered him the chance to be my exclusive
rental agent. The broker had been the agent for the previous owners of the
building, who had been having big problems getting tenants. He was so
sure I would fail that he said he would take the job only if I would pay
him a retainer of $60,000 per month, starting immediately. He said he
would deduct his future commission from that guaranteed fee.
    His offer was impossible for me to accept. I owned a vacant building
with existing losses, and the broker, who had been unable to produce in
the past, was asking me to pay cash up front. I told the broker that his
offer showed a total lack of faith in my ability to be successful--a broker
getting paid without producing a tenant was unheard of.
    The broker remained inflexible in his position. We parted company.
    I hired another high-quality broker, who willingly accepted the
opportunity on the usual terms--no lease, no commission. I renovated the
building. The broker made millions in commissions in the next two years.
The original broker's inflexibility cost him a small fortune, plus he lost any
future business from me.
                     Trust Your Instincts




When I took over 40 Wall Street, my associate Abe Wallach, who
orchestrated the purchase, was certain that the only viable solution was to
convert the building to a residential cooperative apartment house. His
reasoning made sense, given the depressed market for office tenants and
the incentives the city was giving for residential development downtown.
All of the real estate brokers shared his view that leasing to office tenants
wasn't feasible. They said the floor sizes were either too small or too large
for renting. They complained that the lobby, elevators, and building
systems required extensive renovations with questionable results.
    I was leery of their recommendation because the cost of residential
conversion was high, plus the five floors occupied by a law firm would
have to be bought out for megabucks and that would screw up any
construction timetable. My instincts told me the building could become
the prime office location it once had been, and that there had to be a way
to make it work
    I asked George Ross to see whether he could devise a workable
scenario, and he came up with an interesting new approach. He suggested
we envision the 1.3-million-square-foot building as three separate
structures on top of each other:


.    The top 400,000-square-foot tower had small floors with spectacular
     views, and he was convinced it would quickly be rented to boutique

     tenants who would pay higher rent for the prestige of being a full-
     floor user on a high floor.

.    The middle 300,000 square feet could be rented for less per square
     foot, but those rents would still more than cover the purchase price
     and the cost of renovation.

.    The bottom 400,000 square feet might be tougher to rent, but even if
     those floors were completely empty, the building would still be
     profitable, assuming our projections about renting the top 700,000
     square feet were correct.

   Emboldened by George's plan, I discarded the idea of residential
conversion and relied on our construction expertise to turn 40 Wall Street
into a successful office building. We redesigned and modernized the lobby
and building systems, and when the rental market improved, we were
ready. Now, the building is worth hundreds of times what I paid for it.
   I guess my instincts were right.
  Know Exactly What You Want and Keep
                          It to Yourself




If you're careful about what you reveal, you'll have more flexibility as you
gather more information about the contours of the deal.
    In order to complete Trump Tower as I envisioned it, it was necessary
for me to control an adjoining site on Fifty-seventh Street owned by
Leonard Kandell and leased to Bonwit Teller, a dying department store
chain. Len Kandell was a shrewd real estate developer whose ultimate
desire was to own land in strategic locations forever. I tried to gain a long-
term lease, but Kandell was asking for too much in rent, and we were
stalled.
    Meanwhile, during negotiations to buy air rights from the adjoining
Tiffany store, which would allow me to build a larger Trump Tower, I
learned that Tiffany also had an option to buy the Kandell property at a
fair market price. This was news to me, and a crucial piece of information,
but I didn't let anyone know how important that news was to me.
    I led Tiffany to believe I was interested only in air rights, without
calling any special attention to their option to buy the Kandell property.
They sold me their air rights and basically threw in the option as part of
the deal.
    Then I told Len Kandell that I was no longer interested in a lease on
the land. I was going to buy it, using the Tiffany option.
How to Get Rich

    Kandell didn't want to sell, and I really didn't want to buy. With my
new leverage, I suggested reconsideration of a long-term lease. This time,
Kandell agreed, and we quickly closed on a mutually acceptable lease,
beginning a friendship that continues to flourish with his heirs.
    Don't be confined by your expectations. Sometimes, what we think we
want and what we actually want are two different things.
    On more than several occasions, I have discovered in the middle of
negotiations that what I had wanted was the wrong thing. Sometimes, my
negotiating partners have given me ideas I hadn't thought of. Even
adversaries have given me new ideas. Sometimes, a big question suddenly
comes into my mind and I begin to think in a new direction.
    Cut yourself some slack. It's okay to change your mind and suggest a
different approach--as long as you haven't made any commitments to the
other side.
    Some people, while admitting I'm a good negotiator, have said I'm
devious. I'm too busy to be devious. I just assimilate new information
quickly and move forward in unexpected ways--unexpected to the other
party as well as to myself. That's one reason I find negotiating exciting.
    Perhaps because I'm a Gemini, I believe there is a duality to
negotiating. You have to balance reason with passion. Reason keeps you
open. Passion keeps your adrenaline going.
    Before you begin any negotiation, write down your objectives. Then
try to anticipate what the other side might want. Find a way of talking
about the deal and setting up parameters that will keep either of you from
getting locked into an impossible position.
    Know what you want, bottom line, but keep it to yourself until a
strategically necessary moment. Once all of the issues are on the table,
you'll have a better approach to navigating your way to your desired
solution.
        Make Sure Both Sides Come Out
                                Winning




In The Art of the Deal, I described how I acquired the Hilton property in
Atlantic City, now known as Trump Marina, for $320 million. It was the
biggest gamble of my career at the time, and it became front page news
because the property was also sought by Steve Wynn, the largest casino
owner in Las Vegas, who launched a hostile takeover bid before Hilton
chose me as its white knight.
    I like all of my Atlantic City hotels, but Trump Marina is where I
prefer to stay when I'm in town, because acquiring this property was a
victory to savor. It reminds me of an essential negotiating skill: Let
everyone come out a winner. There was no rancor in this triumph.
    There was drama, however--especially when Steve Wynn got
involved. It became a competition of heavy hitters, and I loved every
minute of it. I'll bet Steve did, too. To this day, we are good friends.
    Interestingly enough, we are now both fodder for an HBO movie in
development about Atlantic City. I got a copy of the script and it takes
plenty of shots at me and Steve. It is highly inaccurate.
    Steve, in essence, provided a catalyst for both the Hiltons and myself
to get what we wanted. Was Steve the loser? No. I got the property I
wanted, but Steve is thriving. The battle for the property enlarged his
reputation and probably helped him move on to even bigger deals.
    If the HBO movie ever makes it to the small screen, don't believe what
you see. You'll get a better view of reality from other TV shows on the air.
In a good negotiation, all sides win.
      Let Your Guard Down, but Only on
                               Purpose




Offer a calculated nugget of information, or a provocative opinion, to see
what the reaction is.
    If you say something seemingly off the cuff, you may get a revealing
response. I might make an outrageous comment in a meeting just to see
whether the other people play along or take a stand and disagree. It's a
good way of assessing the mettle of the folks across the table. Do they
want to be liked? Are they comfortable with unpredictability? Are they
capable of candor?
    Know that your negotiating partner might bluff, too. But when it
comes to serious endeavors, you don't want bluffers of any sort. Study the
person's history.
    I'm always surprised when newcomers to the real estate industry
think that talking big and fast will get them somewhere with me.
Construction of a big building is painstaking work and that's the kind of
person I want doing it--someone who will take the time to do it right. I
don't want people who think they can get it done in record time. That can
spell disaster.
    I remember one contractor who tried every angle to convince me how
fast he was. His time estimates were so far off that I couldn't take him
seriously, but I let him keep trying to pitch me just to find out how full of
How to Get Rich

it he really was. He must have thought he caught me on a bad day or with
my guard down, but my guard wasn't down--I was just incredulous.
Finally, I told the guy that what he was saying was exactly what I never
wanted to hear. He was the first person whose bid was ruled out.

        Being Stubborn Is Often an Asset




My first big deal, in 1974, involved the old Commodore Hotel site near
Grand Central Station on Forty-second Street in New York City. The hotel
was vacant, except for a sleazy club called Plato's Retreat and some
rundown street-level stores.
    The land was owned by the Penn Central Railroad, which was
bankrupt and owed New York City $15 million in back taxes that the city
desperately needed. The city was about to default on its bonds, and banks
would not consider real estate loans in Manhattan.
    My idea was to transform the Commodore into a state-of-the-art hotel.
I had a six-point plan:


1. Buy the land from the railroad.

2. Induce the railroad to use the purchase price to pay the City of New
    York the back taxes it owed.

3. Convince a New York State agency with the power of eminent domain
    to accept a deed to the land to condemn all existing leases.

4. Persuade the city to accept a fixed rental and a share of the profits in
    lieu of taxes.

5. Find a big hotel operator to join me in the project, since I had no hotel
    experience.
6. Convince a bank to loan me $80 million to build the hotel.

    When I first told my lawyer, George Ross, of my plans, he told me I
was crazy to attempt something so bold in such a bad economic
environment. I told him I was determined to get it done. He agreed to
help.
    For two years, I stuck to my guns. Eventually, it paid off.
    The railroad sold me the land for $12 million and used the money to
pay the city its back taxes.
    The Urban Development Corporation accepted the deed to the land
and agreed to condemn all existing leases, provided I would pay all
damages to the displaced tenants.
    The city agreed to the lease from UDC with a fixed rent and a share of
the profits.
    Hyatt became my partner in the deal and funded half of it.
    I got a loan from the Bowery Savings Bank to cover the cost of
acquisition and construction.
    The hotel became the Grand Hyatt.
    The fact that I was stubborn and had achieved a result others deemed
impossible jump-started my career as a developer.
                              Be Patient
I like to move quickly, but if a situation requires patience, I will be patient.
The speed depends on the circumstances, and I keep my objective in mind
at all times. This alone can be a patience pill. I've spent from five minutes
to fifteen years waiting for a deal.
    One good tactic for speeding up a deal is to show a lack of interest in
it. This will often make the other side rekindle their efforts to get
something going. I was very interested in a deal once, but I had a hunch
that it wasn't a good idea to look too eager to these people. I would put off
their calls and do my best to appear aloof. Then I said I'd be traveling for a
couple of weeks and would get back to them after that. While I was
"traveling," they used the time to modify their position and present to me
almost precisely what I'd been hoping to get. It saved us all a lot of
negotiating time.
    A good tactic for slowing down a deal is to distract the other side. One
way is to drop hints about whether a certain aspect of the deal should be
looked into further, or to mention other deals and properties as examples.
That will set them off in a direction that consumes their time and focus.
While they're off on a tangent, you'll still be on target.
    One time, I was in the middle of a negotiation that seemed to be
speeding out of my control. I suddenly asked the other side if they knew
the history of a particular development, implying that their understanding
of it might be crucial. They figured the development must have had some

bearing on what we were trying to accomplish together, so they backed up
a bit, took some time to investigate it, and gave me control of the
negotiations with enough time to assess everything at my leisure. I got the
upper hand.
                  Life at the top means the phone calls never stop.

               Be Strategically Dramatic

In 1999, I began construction on the tallest residential tower in the world,
Trump World Tower at the United Nations Plaza.
    The location was terrific--the East Side of Manhattan, close to the
United Nations, with both river views and city views. It was hot stuff, but
not everyone was happy about it, especially some diplomats at the United
Nations, who didn't want their thirty-eight-story building to be outclassed
by our ninety-story tower. According to CNN, UN secretary general Kofi
Annan acknowledged talking with New York City mayor Rudolph
Giuliani about the project and how to stop it.
    "It will not fit here," the Ukrainian ambassador, Volodymyr
Yel'chenko, told CNN, "because it overshadows the United Nations
complex."
    When the protests became vocal, I used my own brand of diplomacy
and refused to say anything critical of the United Nations. I predicted that
many ambassadors and UN officials would end up buying apartments in
the building. Sure enough, they have.
    But as soon as we were in business, the city hit us with an enormous
tax assessment, costing us over $100 million more than we thought we
should pay. We decided to take the only action possible. We sued the city
for $500 million.
    For four years, we fought this case. The city lawyers held their ground,
and we held ours. We could have given up. It's not easy to take on the
government and win, especially when the issue is taxes, but I knew we
had a case.
   Finally, after many conversations, we reached a settlement. The city
agreed to cut our taxes seventeen percent and give us the ten-year tax
abatement that we sought if we would agree to withdraw our lawsuit and
subsidize two hundred units of affordable housing in the Bronx.
   The lawsuit saved us approximately $97 million. We never would
have gotten any of it if we hadn't taken dramatic action.
For many years I've said that if someone screws you, screw them back. I
once made the mistake of saying that in front of a group of twenty priests
who were in a larger audience of two thousand people. I took some heat
for that. One of them said, "My son, we thought you were a much nicer
person."
    I responded, "Father, I have great respect for you. You'll get to heaven.
I probably won't, but to be honest, as long as we're on the earth, I really
have to live by my principles."
    When somebody hurts you, just go after them as viciously and as
violently as you can. Like it says in the Bible, an eye for an eye.
    Be paranoid. I know this observation doesn't make any of us sound
very good, but let's face the fact that it's possible that even your best
friend wants to steal your spouse and your money. As I say every week in
The Apprentice, it's a jungle out there. We're worse than lions--at least they
do it for food. We do it for the thrill of the hunt.
    Recently, I've become a bit more mellow about retribution and
paranoia. Although I still believe both are necessary, I now realize that
vengeance can waste a lot of time better spent on new developments and
deals, and even on building a better personal life. If you can easily dismiss
a negative from your life, it's better to do so. Seeing creeps as a form of
corruption that you're better off without is a great time-saving device.
    Still, sometimes you've just got to screw them back.
    For example, a while ago I agreed to invest a small amount in a new
restaurant venture. I did this with the full expectation that I was throwing
this money down the drain, because most of these clubs are not successful.
I liked the two young guys who approached me to invest and figured I'd
give them a break--plus a good friend of mine had asked me to help
them.
    When the restaurant opened, it was a smash hit. Crowds of people
lined up to get in. Money was pouring in. It was incredible.
    About a year later, I realized that I hadn't received a single dollar from
the owners--no repayment of my initial investment and certainly no
profit. I called two of the guys who got me into the deal and said, "Fellas,
come on, I know success when I see it. You ought to pay back your
investors."
    One of them said, "Oh, we're working so hard, and the money just
isn't coming in fast enough."
    My response: "Bullshit! I don't believe it." From my perspective, they
seemed to be living like kings.
    Eventually, I received my first "equity distribution" from them, for a
fraction of my investment. I was furious and sent an angry letter to the
managing partner, in which I asked for a public investigation of their
records.
    I'm an instinctive businessman and I hate being screwed. I can't prove
they did anything wrong without spending more money to investigate
them than my investment is worth, but my hunch is that investors like me
should have been repaid six times their initial investment by now.
    Now whenever I see the guys I tried to help, they wave to me and I
just turn my back. The sad thing for them is that had I felt that they treated
me (and their other investors) fairly, I probably would have backed them
for millions on their next deal.
   Maybe I'll sue them anyway, just to prove my point. Business can be
tough, but you've got to stay true to your principles.
For years, I supported the governor of New York Mario Cuomo. I was one
of his largest campaign contributors. I never asked for a thing while he
was in office. For my generous support, he regularly thanked me and
other major contributors with a tax on real estate so onerous that it drove
many investors away from the city. It became known as the Cuomo Tax.
    After he was defeated for reelection by a better man (and governor),
George Pataki, I called Mario to ask for a perfectly legal and appropriate
favor involving attention to a detail at the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, which at the time was being run by his son Andrew.
    Mario told me that this would be hard for him to do, because he rarely
calls the "Secretary" on business matters.
    I said to him, "Mario, he is not the Secretary. He's your son."
    Mario said, "Well, I think of him as the Secretary, and I refer to him as
that--he's got a very serious job to do."
    I understood Mario's concern about impropriety, but I wasn't asking
him to do anything even slightly questionable--this was a simple,
aboveboard request, the kind of favor that takes place between friends in
the private and public sectors all the time. Finally, I asked Mario point-
blank, "Well, are you going to help me?"
    In a very nice way, he essentially told me no.
    I did the only thing that felt right to me. I began screaming. "You son
of a bitch! For years I've helped you and never asked for a thing, and
when I finally need something, and a totally proper thing at that, you
aren't there for me. You're no good. You're one of the most disloyal people
I've known and as far as I'm concerned, you can go to hell."
    My screaming was so loud that two or three people came in from
adjoining offices and asked who I was screaming at. I told them it was
Mario Cuomo, a total stiff, a lousy governor, and a disloyal former friend.
Now whenever I see Mario at a dinner, I refuse to acknowledge him, talk
to him, or even look at him.
    I will say this, however. Mario's wife, Matilda, is a fine woman and
was a terrific friend to my mother. It's not her fault that her husband is a
loser.


Another failed politician who disappointed me is a man named Pete
Dawkins, sometimes referred to as General Pete Dawkins. He led a
charmed life--West Point cadet, Heisman trophy winner, Rhodes scholar,
but as I found out, Pete was also a stiff. When he was running for the U.S.
Senate in New Jersey against Frank Lautenberg, a magazine called
Manhattan, Inc. published a damning profile of him, and Dawkins folded
up like a broken umbrella.
    One day, Dawkins came to my office and asked me to help him build
the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in lower Manhattan. He asked for a
million dollars (or more) because he said he was having bad luck raising
money.
    I decided to help because no soldiers have ever been treated worse
than the courageous people who came back from Vietnam, wounded and
maimed, attacked physically abroad and psychologically at home. I
provided over a million dollars in matching grants, and, almost as
important, I helped get it built by using the best contractors in the city,
along with unions who made sure it was constructed swiftly, properly,
and cost-effectively. At the opening, Pete Dawkins took the credit.
    Many years later, he was working as a high-ranking executive at
Citibank and I phoned him to ask a small favor, to find something out for
me. He didn't respond for a while, so I called him two more times. Finally,
he said, "I really can't do it for you, Donald, and I really don't want to get
involved." I told Dawkins that the Manhattan, Inc. article about him had
been true. I consider him to be one of the most overrated people I have
ever dealt with.
    Sometimes you have to hold a grudge.
I purchased the Miss Universe Organization in 1996 and immediately sold
half of the company to CBS; so not only were they our broadcaster, they
were a co-owner as well. This kind of arrangement, where the network
actually owns the end product, was a fairly new concept and should have
been a win-win situation, since CBS would actually be able to eliminate
the middleman and pay a lower license fee while, in theory, the network,
as an owner, would look to maximize all promotional opportunities.
     The partnership was a great concept, but after five years, it had not
gone as planned. CBS was not willing to promote the shows to my
satisfaction. As more and more cable competition ate into the network's
market share, on-air promotion became all the more important to sustain
viewership, but it just wasn't happening. To make matters worse, CBS
tried to change the shows drastically by making them MTV-style music
specials and dramatically cutting the time allotted to show the women
competing. I am not a net work programmer, but it seemed to me that
people might be tuning in to a beauty competition to see beautiful women.
     I am not saying a television musical performance is a bad thing; there
have been some great ones over the years. A perfect example was the 1999
Miss Teen USA pageant: A year earlier, the teen show had introduced a
little-known boy band called 'NSync. By 1999 they were the biggest band
around. As a sign of appreciation, they agreed to appear on the Miss Teen
USA pageant again. In the middle of their summer tour, 'NSync rented a
jet and flew in for eight hours the day of the show, performing two songs.
They were terrific. Unfortunately, no one knew about it because CBS had
chosen not to run a single promotion for the show.
    So in February 2002 we were all reevaluating how we wanted to
approach the network license renewal. Citing the current ratings, which
were caused by the lack of promotion and the fact that CBS would always
air the pageant against the toughest competition, Les Moonves, the head
of the network, said he was not willing to begin negotiations until the end
of the season. Obviously, with the season ending in August, the network
schedules would be set and there would be absolutely no room for
negotiation with any other network.
    I sent a letter to Les telling him I wanted an option to buy CBS out of
the partnership, exercisable up until a week after the broadcast of the Miss
Universe pageant in May. I feigned disinterest in continuing with the
pageants and told him if I did not exercise the option, we would
commence with selling or dismantling the company. A few days later, I
believed we had a deal.
    I immediately signed with Jim Griffin of the William Morris Agency to
begin shopping the pageants to other broadcasters. I also called my good
friend Bob Wright, chairman and CEO of NBC, to tell him the pageants
might become available. I knew that NBC had recently acquired
Telemundo, and the pageants are huge in Latin markets. It looked like a
great opportunity for cross-promotion.
    In the meantime, CBS had given up and allowed us free rein to get
back to the basics on the production and put more emphasis on what had
worked in the past: beautiful women. We also convinced them to schedule
the pageant for a night outside of the all-important ratings sweeps, which
would ensure more on-air promotions.
    As a result, our 2002 Miss Universe pageant hit ratings gold. Overall, it
was number seven for the week and number one in demographics. The
pageant even trounced the NBA playoffs on NBC. The Miss Universe
pageant quickly became a very hot property.
    I immediately sent a letter to Les Moonves telling him I was exercising
my option to buy out CBS. To my shock, Les took the position that we had
never agreed on an option. NBC was waiting in the wings, and after a
weeklong bidding war I bought out CBS and created a new partnership
with NBC.
    At the first meeting of the new board, I asked the Miss Universe staff
to dust off some of the cross-promotional ideas they had pitched to CBS
over the years. Within minutes, Jeff Gaspin of NBC approved the
production of a Miss USA Fear Factor to lead into the Miss USA telecast. In
addition, the Today show agreed to do five-minute live shots from each
pageant location. The results were amazing. For years the pageants had
tried to get a plug on the third-rated CBS Morning Show and couldn't get
as much as a returned phone call. Now they were getting major promotion
on the nation's number one morning program and an Internet tie-in
through NBC.com.
    The Miss USA Fear Factor was the highest rated in the series and the
2003 Miss USA and Miss Universe pageants received the highest ratings
since I had bought the company. Additionally, the Telemundo simulcast
of the pageant was one of the highest-rated programs in the network's
history.
    The cross-promotional concept I visualized in 1996 was finally realized
in 2003, and it never would have happened if I hadn't been willing to walk
away from CBS, say no, and pursue a better opportunity elsewhere.
Over the years, I have been criticized for the way I comb my hair, but
never so much as since the opening show of The Apprentice. New York
magazine wrote that I'd "perfected the pompad-over." The New York Times
called it "an elaborate structure best left to an architecture critic."
    David Letterman and Jay Leno regularly do quips about it. Matt
Lauer, who with Katie Couric has taken the Today show to new heights,
told me I should just give up the ghost and shave it off or give myself
some kind of buzz cut like the one he has. Likewise, Pat O'Brien, the star
of Access Hollywood, told me he had heard about Matt Lauer's comment
and totally agrees with him.
    Personally, I think it looks good, but I've never said my hair was my
strongest point. I told Pat and Matt that I'm just not ready to change my
style. I've been combing it this way for a long time and I might as well
keep doing it. The ratings of The Apprentice are sky-high, and maybe they
would drop if I changed the look at this point.
    I'm amazed by how often people ask me whether or not I wear a
hairpiece, a wig, or a rug, as it is affectionately known.
    The answer, for the record, is emphatically and categorically no: I do
not wear a rug. My hair is one hundred percent mine. No animals have
been harmed in the creation of my hairstyle.
    However, I must admit that the day may come when I will wear a
hairpiece, wig, or rug--but only if I go bald, which I hope never happens.
The reason for this is because I, like most men, am very vain. Many times
over the years, I've heard people say that men are vainer than women, and
I believe it. Guys don't like to talk about it, but Random House is paying
me a fortune for this book and specifically requested a chapter on "the art
of the hair," so I will admit to my vanity.
    I will also reveal some of my hair-related secrets.
    The reason my hair looks so neat all the time is because I don't have to
deal with the elements very often. I live in the building where I work. I
take an elevator from my bedroom to my office. The rest of the time, I'm
either in my stretch limousine, my private jet, my helicopter, or my private
club in Palm Beach, Florida. If Matt Lauer had my lifestyle, he might not
have changed his hairstyle--although his hair looks great now.
    If I happen to be outside, I'm probably on one of my golf courses,
where I protect my hair from overexposure by wearing a golf hat. It's also
a way to avoid the paparazzi. Plus the hat always has a big TRUMP logo on
it--it's an automatic promotion.
    I will also admit that I color my hair. Somehow, the color never looks
great, but what the hell, I just don't like gray hair.
    I wonder how much longer my hair will be a national topic of
conversation. Letterman and Leno have been funny, but one person I don't
like is Joy Behar, a woman who works for Barbara Walters on The View.
For weeks, she was attacking me, insisting that I wear a wig, so Barbara
and her staff called me and asked if I would surprise them and appear on
the show. I did, and when I ran my hand through my hair and proved that
it was real, everybody laughed and that was the end of that.
    After The Apprentice premiered, Joy Behar was on The Tonight Show
along with the rest of the cast of The View. Out of the blue, Jay Leno started
talking about the great success of The Apprentice. Star Jones raved about it,
as did the others--except for Joy Behar, a woman with no talent and a
terrible accent, who again attacked my hair. I've always said that show
would do better without her. I did her a favor by going on the show, and it
was not appreciated. Being nice to some people never pays off.
   I suppose it's possible that I could rethink my look for the second
season of The Apprentice. But probably not--it seems to be working!
Whether you're building a luxury apartment or producing a beauty
pageant, you've got to give the people what they want.
     In a book like this one, that means some good advice, some wisdom, a
little bit of gossip, and a glimmer of fame.
     I've done my best to give you some wisdom and advice. Now, here's a
Palm Beach morality tale about gossip and fame:
     I had a friend who was rich and successful and very married. For
months, I kept hearing a rumor that he was having an affair with an
equally successful businesswoman who was also very married. It was
hard to believe. She was drop-dead gorgeous and could probably have
had any guy she wanted. My friend was not a likely choice.
     The rumors persisted, and then one day my friend invited me out to
dinner with the gorgeous woman and her husband. I told him the
invitation seemed strange to me. "For a long time, I've been hearing
you're having an affair with her. Wouldn't you find it a little
uncomfortable having dinner with her in front of her husband?"
     Surprisingly, my friend confirmed that he was having the affair, that
the woman's husband didn't know, and that he (my friend) was totally in
love, something which he felt his wife, who was as tough as nails, would
not exactly appreciate or understand.
     Without revealing any of my friend's secrets, I told my girlfriend,
Melania, to prepare for a wild evening.
    We had dinner at a restaurant. Normally, I would have been watching
the scene with great amusement, but the businesswoman's husband was
also a friend of mine, and so I was in a precarious position. There we all
sat, as though nothing was happening, but we could all feel tension in the
air. As we left, I watched my friend grab the businesswoman around the
waist in a more than familiar fashion. Her husband was out of sight when
this happened, but it was clear to me that, despite my disbelief and
amazement, there was something going on between the two.
    Over the next few weeks, my friend called me incessantly, proclaiming
his love for the woman. He said he would do anything to be with her, and
that she was also in love with him. His calls became so frequent that
Melania asked, "Why does he keep calling you? What's going on?" When I
told Melania about the affair, she also found it hard to believe. As I said,
this businesswoman is an amazing beauty and my friend is not exactly
Brad Pitt--although he is very rich and some women find him handsome.
    Finally, after a number of phone calls, I said, "Look, are you
bullshitting me or is this for real?"
    He said, "It is! It is! I want to come over and see you and I'll prove it."
He didn't have to prove anything to me. What difference did it make? But
I invited him over anyway.
    When he arrived, he told me how they'd met, how the relationship
was going, all the sordid details. I still wasn't sure I believed him, but then
he played an answering machine tape of a call she had made to him. She
said the kind of intimate things only a lover would say. It was truly down
and dirty, and I definitely recognized her voice. There was no longer any
doubt in my mind about what was taking place.
    For a while, my friend continued to call me to say how much he loved
this woman. If I was in Palm Beach when he called me, I would just watch
the television and politely listen to what he was saying. I felt more like his
psychiatrist than anything else.

    Then the shit hit the fan! The woman's husband had found out,
phoned my friend, and threatened to kill him. But what really bothered
my friend was the next call he received--from the woman, saying she
would never see him or talk to him again, and that if she did, her husband
would tell my friend's wife everything about the affair. My friend was
devastated. Afterward, he repeatedly tried to reach his ex-lover, but she
refused to respond.
    As usually happens, my friend's wife found out. Probably, the
businesswoman's husband had called her, but who knows?
    About six months later, I saw the businesswoman at a gallery and she
confronted me. "Donald," she said, "I hear you've been spreading rumors
all over town about me. It's terrible what you've done, and the rumors
about me and [X] aren't true. Can you imagine me going out with him?"
After listening to her accusations and denials for fifteen minutes, I realized
she is one of the greatest salespeople I have ever known, because if I had
not heard her voice on that answering machine tape, I would have
completely believed her. She told me she couldn't believe people would
even think she would go out with my friend. "Why would I want to?
What did he have? Give me a break!"
    I figured that was the end of it, but then I realized that my friend had
not called me in some time. I was wondering how he was doing, so I
phoned him to say hello. He wasn't in and didn't return my call. I phoned
again, and again he didn't call back. I was worried, so I called a third time
and a fourth time. No response.
    Later, I found out that his wife had blamed me for the entire affair. She
thought I had introduced him to this woman. Apparently, she told him
that if he ever spoke to me again, she would divorce him.
    It turns out he had used me as a scapegoat. The funny thing is, I
wouldn't have minded and would have helped him out and played along
if he'd had the decency, as a good friend, to call me and say, "Look, I have
a problem. Can I blame it on you?" Even if it meant he wouldn't have been
able to see me or speak to me again, I would have accepted it and been
glad to have helped keep his marriage together. But he never made that
call to me. He did everything without an explanation.
    Now when I see him at a restaurant or an event, nothing is said. But he
knows, and I know.
    I heard he was still suffering through his marriage. As a means of
reconciliation, he bought his wife some tremendous jewelry. Apparently,
she made him return it because it wasn't big enough or expensive enough.
He had to go back and buy her something even bigger and better.
The New York Post is a popular daily newspaper in this city. I read it every
day, as do lots of other people. It contains a two-page spread called Page
Six, which is not located on page six but is a must-read. Over the years it's
been edited by a highly talented guy named Richard Johnson. He's got
insight into everything, and he knows more about what's going on in New
York than anyone I know. For better or for worse, I make Page Six a lot. I
hope the day never comes when they don't find me interesting enough to
mention. Meanwhile, here's my version of Page Six for my readers, so
you'll be up on the latest.
I'm sure a lot of you have heard of Ivana, my first wife, who christened
me "The Donald" and launched a thousand missiles--I mean smiles--in
my direction. Well, I'm happy to report that she's doing well and at this
moment is in the south of France, having, I hope, a great time. We are on
good terms and speak often. We are still neighbors in New York City, and
with three incredible children to share, we consider ourselves to be very
fortunate people and good friends.
    Marla, my second wife, is living in Los Angeles and is as beautiful as
ever. Our daughter, Tiffany, is now ten years old, and continues to charm
everything and everyone in sight. I don't see her as much as I'd like, but
every minute is worth a bundle when I do.
   I've spent the last five years with the exquisite Melania Knauss, a
model from Slovenia. Anyone who has ever met her will never forget it.
She's just as beautiful on the inside as she is on the outside. Despite her
great beauty, she is a very calm and soothing person who has brought a
sense of stability to my very turbulent life. I am lucky to be with her!
   My eldest son, Don Jr., joined The Trump Organization in September
2001 and has already proven himself to be a valuable member of our team.
He, like me, graduated from the Wharton School at the University of
Pennsylvania, and has since decided to join the family business and see
what he can learn from his father. He's a good guy and will be a successful
one, too.
   Ivanka, my eldest daughter, is currently attending the Wharton
School. She has already had a successful modeling career and is a
heartbreaker in every way. She will do well no matter what she does.
   Eric, my youngest son, is at Georgetown University and doing well.
We have great expectations for him, and since he's already six feet six
inches tall, that shouldn't prove to be a problem. He, like Don Jr., is an
avid outdoorsman.

    I remain very close to my brother Robert and to my sisters, Maryanne
and Elizabeth. All are thriving, successful, and productive.
    My parents, Fred and Mary, passed away in 1999 and 2000,
respectively. The void they left will never be filled. But what each gave to
me, by way of example, will remain with me every day of my life.
    I love my family. They are very much my motivation. They always
have been, and they always will be. Am I a rich man? Yes, very rich.
    I also feel blessed to have some terrific friends and business associates.
    Barbara Corcoranis a wonderful woman who did a tremendous job in
creating the Corcoran Group. She then sold it for a substantial profit and
has done well ever since. I will never be surprised by how well she does. A
friend of mine recently sent me an article about Barbara in which she was
asked about my influence on the residential market. She said, "Donald
Trump has had singularly the greatest possible influence on Manhattan
luxury real estate, simply because it was his marketing chutzpah that
changed the perception of living in Manhattan." It's always nice to be
complimented by pros, and Barbara is a total pro.
    Another good friend is Mohamed Al Fayed, chairman of Harrods in
Knightsbridge, London. Mohamed has gone through quite a rough time
over the last several years--it was his son Dodie who was dating Princess
Diana. To many of us, it looked like they would be getting married at
some point in the not-too-distant future, until their lives ended in that
tragic car crash in Paris. Mohamed is an extremely loyal father who has
fought so hard for his son and the memory of him. I wish people
understood him better. He is a truly good man.
    Jack Welchis a particular favorite of mine. Now he's writing a book,
and I'm going to be the first on line to buy it. Few people, if any, have ever
done a better job of running a corporation.
    I always enjoy being with George Steinbrenner. Quite honestly,
there's no one like him, and he hasn't been appreciated to the extent he
should be. I remember the Yankees when they couldn't win a game, when
nobody went to Yankee Stadium, and the team was a total disaster.
George puts a championship team on the field every year and does what it
takes to win, whether people like him for it or not.
    When we were taping The Apprentice, I told NBC that I would love to
get George to give the candidates a lecture on winning. They looked at me
and thought I was crazy, because the scene had to be shot that day and the
World Series was beginning the following day. Knowing what a good
friend George was, I was sure he would do it, and when I called him at
Yankee Stadium he immediately picked up the phone and agreed. We
were at Yankee Stadium thirty minutes later, and even the top people at
NBC were impressed. The kids walked into this legendary office with its
pictures of Babe Ruth, Joe DiMaggio, Mickey Mantle, and many other
Yankee greats on the walls, and their eyes were wide open, as though
they'd never seen anything like it before. George was incredibly nice. He
sat with the kids for a long time, until I finally had to be the one to say,
"George, you're busy as hell--let me get them out of here." He's really a
great guy. People will appreciate George Steinbrenner only when they no
longer have him, and when the Yankees are wallowing in last place.
    Another sports owner who is one of the great winners is Bob Kraft,
who helped lead the New England Patriots to a second Super Bowl
victory. I've gotten to know Bob over the last two years, and there is no
finer gentleman. He and his wife, Myra, are totally unassuming. With his
sons, Bob has methodically and brilliantly built a strong franchise in New
England that was a total disaster before Kraft's ascent. Tom Brady is the
best quarterback in football. There are other quarterbacks with impressive
stats, but when you need someone to throw four or five completions in the
final minutes of a game, there is nobody better than Tom. With all of their
upcoming draft choices and the great players they already have, this team
is only going to get better over the next few years.
    Two other terrific team owners are Jerry Jones, owner of the Dallas
Cowboys, and Bob Tisch, owner of the New York Giants. Tisch has done
so well in every capacity, whether it's business or sports. He's in his
seventies, but he's got the attitude of someone in his twenties, thirties, or
forties.
    Larry Silverstein, the developer of the new World Trade Center
complex, is a good friend of mine, but I really hate what's being designed
for the site. It resembles a skeleton, and I can't believe Larry really wanted
to evoke that image. In actuality, Larry is being forced to do certain things
that he would not do under normal circumstances, but he has to go with
the flow. Nevertheless, I'm sure he'll do a terrific job.
    Finally, since Page Six often takes a few digs at people, here are mine:

    Dan Rather is not one of my favorite people. A few years ago, he
wanted to profile me for 60 Minutes. As we toured Mar-a-Lago and Trump
International Golf Club in Florida, he couldn't have been nicer or more
respectful. I was sure the interview would be a total home run.
    When the interview aired, it couldn't have been nastier. He showed
me giving a speech to an empty room at a poorly planned event, when the
day before I'd given the same speech to a standing-room-only crowd. But
60 Minutes didn't air that speech. They just wanted me to look as bad as
possible.
    Dan Rather is an enigma to me. He's got absolutely no talent or
charisma or personality, yet year after year, CBS apologizes for his terrible
ratings. I could take the average guy on the street and have him read the
news on CBS and that guy would draw bigger ratings than Dan Rather
does. When I see Rather at Yankee games, I stay away from him.
However, I will say one nice thing about him: Recently, he was the emcee
at a Police Athletic League dinner for District Attorney Robert
Morgenthau, one of the great men in the history of New York City. Dan
called me and told me he felt very uncomfortable being the emcee of a
dinner for which I was the chairman. I told him I appreciated the call and
that it would be fine with me if he was the emcee. He did a nice job, but I'll
never forget what he did to me on 60 Minutes. People don't change their
stripes.
    I'll conclude this with a story about Howard Cosell, a spectacular
sportscaster who I got to know during the last ten years of his life. People
either loved Howard or hated him--there was no in between--but he was
really the best at what he did. As Howard grew older, though, he became
nastier, even toward the people who loved him and had helped make him
a success. He always felt that being a sportscaster was beneath him. He
longed to run for the U.S. Senate.

    Howard could sit on a dais with sports figures he hadn't seen for
thirty years and quote their exact statistics. His memory was amazing.
Then he wrote his final book and knocked almost everyone he knew, from
Roone Arledge to Frank Gifford, one of the finest people around. It did a
lot of damage to him, because all of his friends turned against him. I
remember saying to him, "Howard, you can knock twenty percent of the
people, maybe twenty-five percent or thirty percent of the people, but you
can't knock everybody. You didn't say anything nice about anybody in the
book. It was the wrong thing to do. I believe in knocking people, but you
can't knock everybody."
    That's a rule I try to follow, in this book and in my life.

In The Art of the Deal and in my other two memoirs, I included a chapter
about a typical week in my life. When I met Mark Burnett, the creator of
The Apprentice, he told me it was his favorite chapter in the book, and a lot
of other readers have told me the same thing. So, back by popular
demand, here's an example of what an average eventful week was like in
the fall of 2003.
    This chapter doesn't have any specific advice on how to get rich, but it
will show you how I have fun, and I doubt I'd be as successful as I am if I
weren't having such a good time.
9:00A.M. I have a meeting with architect Costas Kondylis, an elegant way
to start the week. Costas and I have worked on several very successful
projects together, including the Trump World Tower at the United
Nations Plaza, Trump Park Avenue (at Fifty-ninth Street and Park
Avenue, just completed), and, together with Philip Johnson and Skidmore
Owings and Merrill, Trump Place, my sixteen-building development
along the Hudson River. Some of you might remember that site as the
West Side yards, which I have been involved with since 1974, when I first
secured the option to purchase them from the Penn Central Railroad. That
was my first major deal in Manhattan. Close to thirty years later, here we
are discussing the fifth and sixth buildings under construction. (Never
give up.)

My eldest son, Don Jr., is also at the meeting. We are on schedule with
construction, and the first three condominium buildings have proven to be
very successful. However, neither Costas nor myself is likely to ever rest
on his laurels, and we are troubleshooting, going over every detail. If
Costas hadn't been an architect, he'd have made a very good surgeon--
he's just that meticulous. We get along famously, and I'd put him up there
with Philip Johnson as one of our most outstanding architects.

We are also discussing the reaction to the city park I developed and
donated to the city, which is on the West Side yards property. I hate to
disappoint people, but my detractors were not pleased about this twenty-
five-acre gift. What can I say? Except that you can't be all things to all
people, no matter how hard you try.

I look over some kitchen and bathroom fixtures, and we decide to go with
the top of the line. My name and work have become synonymous with
quality, and there's a reason for it. We don't skimp on anything, ever or
anywhere. Don Jr. mentions looking forward to the topping-out party for
Building #4. That's a big day for builders, and it's a celebration when the
frame of the building, the superstructure, is completed, and everyone
involved meets at the top for a party.

9:30A.M. Norma comes in to tell me that Oscar de la Renta is on the line,
and Costas and I decide to meet again in a couple of weeks. Our new Miss
Universe, Amelia Vega, is from Santo Domingo, which is also the
birthplace of Oscar de la Renta. He wants to meet her, and I don't blame
him. She's a beauty, all six feet of her. We're proud not only of her, but of
the Miss Universe contest, which has become extremely successful since I
bought it seven years ago. We beat out the competition in television
ratings and we are highly regarded internationally as well. Ecuador has
paid millions of dollars to host the 2004 contest, and we're looking
forward to a great time there.

Back to Oscar--he's a class act all the way. His impeccable work speaks
for itself.

9:45A.M. I make a call to some wiseguy contractors who've been trying to
cheat me. This can be a crummy business because of the scum of the earth
it attracts, but you have to do what you have to do. Screaming at them is
what I have to do.

10:00A.M. I have three calls waiting: Mark Brown, the CEO and president
of my three casinos in Atlantic City; Woody Allen's office; and Mayor
Bloomberg. I take the mayor's call first, much as I respect Woody Allen
and Mark. I think the mayor is doing a great job, considering he's got one
of the toughest jobs on the planet. Running a corporation is one thing;
running a city is another, especially this one.
Woody Allen may go down to Florida and stay at the Mar-a-Lago, my
club in Palm Beach. I've been in one Woody Allen film, and I never miss
any of his movies.

10:30A.M. I have my first Diet Coke of the day. I know I should drink
mineral water, and I do sometimes, but I really like Diet Coke. Irina
Dvorovenko calls in; she's a ballerina at the American Ballet Theatre. She's
not only a sensational dancer, but also an incredibly beautiful woman. I'm
not exactly a ballet fan, but because of Irina, that might be a possibility.

The television crew from Neal Cavuto's team is ready for an interview. I
ask what it's about, and then we're ready to go. After decades of
interviews, they are easy for me to do, especially with someone like Neal,
who is not only personable but also very knowledgeable. He and his team
are pros all the way. And he gets the best business ratings on cable TV.

11:00A.M. I received seventeen calls during the interview, and I begin to
return them, in between the incoming calls. After so many years in
business, knowing how to prioritize is second nature. It's also a key factor
in keeping up your momentum, even during a typical workday, which is
crucial if you intend to become or remain successful. Everyone's heard of
the New York minute, but by now that's outdated--it's become the New
York second. That's no exaggeration. Seconds count when you have
hundreds of phone calls a day to handle. One bogged-down conversation,
and your momentum could be interrupted for an hour. So when I say
momentum is crucial, I mean it. You'll know when you've got it, and
you'll know when it's being disrupted.

    I return Joe Cinque's call; he's an executive with the American
Academy of Hospitality Sciences, which presents the coveted Five Star
Diamond award. My properties have received several of them. Joe is a
high-spirited and generous man, but he's difficult to please and discerning
when it comes to giving out awards. He's just returned from Sardinia and
mentions that he still thinks the Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach is the
most beautiful resort he's ever seen, worldwide. Coming from him, that's
saying something. I always liked Joe, and now I like him even more.

I return Regis Philbin's call. He and his wife, Joy, are among my closest
friends, and he's even more fun off-screen than on-screen, if you can
imagine that. I always look forward to spending time with them--they are
both solid-gold people. We're on for dinner at Jean-Georges Restaurant,
which is in the Trump International Hotel & Tower and is considered to be
one of the finest restaurants in the world. With Jean-Georges Vongerichten
in charge, how could it not be?

I take a call from Mark Burnett, the brilliant creator and producer of the
reality show called Survivor. It was his idea to do The Apprentice, and we
are busy working on the details.

11:30A.M. I take a call from Sony; they'd asked me to be a sponsor for the
150th celebration of Central Park in July, featuring rising opera stars
Salvatore Licitra and Marcello Alvarez. The event was a huge success,
with many thousands of New Yorkers turning out to hear some
magnificent singing on a perfect night under the stars in the park. On
nights like that, you have to thank your own lucky stars just to be alive.
We were all proud of how successful the evening was, and I was equally
proud to be a sponsor.

Mike Donovan, my trusted pilot, calls in to update me on the checkup of
my 727 jet. I have both a helicopter and a jet, and they get a workout
throughout the year. With my schedule, they aren't luxury items, but
necessities. Turns out the jet will be ready in two weeks.

Norma comes in to go over the media requests of the morning thus far,
which include two from Holland, three from Germany, two from Canada,
one from France, one from England, and seven from the United States.
Handling media requests alone can require negotiation skills, and we do
our best to accommodate them.

11:45A.M. I have a meeting with Charlie Reiss, Jill Cremer, Russell Flicker,
and Don Jr.--my development team. We are busy with a building in
Chicago, and Don Jr. has been working very effectively and in many
capacities on Trump Park Avenue. We have a lot on our plates already at
The Trump Organization, but, not being a complacent type, I know there
are many opportunities out there and this team tends to that. They do a
great job and have some interesting projects to brief me about.

12:30P.M. I order lunch from our terrific new restaurant at the Trump
Tower atrium, which is doing great business. Some of you may have seen
the commercial I did for McDonald's. I didn't have to act--I like
McDonald's and am a loyal customer. Some days I have pizza, sometimes
a ham and cheese, some days nothing, but I rarely go out for lunch. I still
consider it an interruption in my workday. I review news clippings and
articles during my lunch minute.

12:35P.M. I speak to Bernd Lembcke, the director of the Mar-a-Lago Club.
As you might remember, Mar-a-Lago was once my private home, and I
restored it and turned it into a breathtaking private club. Anything that
beautiful should be shared, and it has been an immense success. Bernd has
tended to it, and I've been named to the Benefactors Board of Directors by
the Historical Society of Palm Beach County. It's nice to see painstaking
work being noticed and rewarded. We discuss the upcoming season and
the latest improvements to the grounds.

12:45P.M. I walk down the hall to visit George Ross. George will always
tell you the way it is, which I appreciate. His thoughts are sharp and insightful, and we have a longish conversation of, perhaps, three minutes.
I am thinking about putting him on The Apprentice.

12:50P.M. Back in my office, I take a call from Hugh Grant. I had a brief
role, as myself, in his movie with Sandra Bullock, Two Weeks Notice.
Hugh's an avid golfer, and my course in Westchester is at his disposal
whenever he's in New York. He's a nice guy on top of being a gifted actor.
In fact, I'm glad he lives in another country--he's got too much on the ball
to have around all the time.

1:00P.M. Norma comes in to go over the invitations to parties and
openings, and for speeches. I don't have much time available. I decide on a
party at Le Cirque.

1:30P.M. I put in a call to Trump National Golf Club in Los Angeles. This
course is on the Pacific Ocean and has the potential to be better than
Pebble Beach. "Spectacular" will be an understatement. It's a gem, and
we're working hard on it. All is going well, but every detail is important
and there are a lot of them to take care of.

2:30P.M. I make a call to an expert on trees. I saw some beautiful ones and
would like to have them on my golf course in Bedminster, New Jersey. I
ask a few questions and find out a lot. When I want to know something, I
go for it, and only on rare occasions will I take a secondhand opinion. This
tactic has served me well over the years--there's nothing wrong with
knowledge, whether it's about trees or sinks.

3:00P.M. Allen Weisselberg, my CFO, comes in for a meeting. He's been
with me for thirty years and keeps a handle on everything, which is not an
easy job. He runs things beautifully. His team is tight and fast, and so are
our meetings.

3:30P.M. I return the fourteen calls that came in during the meeting, which
include those from lawyers, publishers, reporters, and friends. The only
thing worse than having so many calls is not having any calls, so I'm not
complaining.

I take a call from the concrete contractors, who have completely screwed
up and are trying to tell me they haven't screwed up. Everything they've
done is a mess. So instead of having the nice conversation they expected, I
tell it to them the way it is--that they've made a mess of everything and
they'd better get it right. The amazing thing is that they act like they know
what they're doing. When people hear me yelling, believe me, there's a
reason why.
4:30P.M. I go to the conference room for a photo session with Platon, a
young and very accomplished photographer. The photos are for Forbes
magazine. He is fast and efficient, very much like Richard Avedon was
when I did a shoot with him last year. I look forward to seeing the prints.

5:00P.M. I return the seven calls received during the shoot, including one
to my sister, Maryanne. She's still a judge and as wise as ever, and she has
just returned from a trip to Rome.

5:30P.M. Norma comes in to go over more invitations and media requests,
and I read a few letters. There's one from a nine-year-old boy in Minnesota
who has a business proposal for me. After describing his business idea, he
makes me a very tempting offer: "And what's in it for you, Mr. Trump? A
chance for you to make millions, just by becoming my partner!" He also
adds that I can call him anytime, as long as it's before 9:00P.M. I'll keep
that in mind.

6:00P.M. I decide to return to my apartment upstairs, where I make more
calls, until 7:30 or so. At 8:00P.M., Melania and I meet Joy and Regis at
Jean-Georges Restaurant for a perfect meal.

8:30A.M. I arrive at the office. I read between five and seven newspapers
every morning before I get into the office. One thing I enjoy doing is
clipping articles of interest, whether they're about me or not; then I either
save or distribute them. I also receive between ten and twelve magazines a
day, which I review in my apartment at the end of the day. Keeping up on
things worldwide is of great importance if one is to keep the big picture in
mind. Yes, I'm a New Yorker, but there's a big world out there and I try to
stay informed about it. If you see the entire planet as an emerging
market--which it is--you'll discover that you've got a lot of homework to
do every day. It's not an indulgence, but an absolute necessity. So I spend
the next fifteen minutes of relative quiet assessing world developments.
Call it multitasking, call it whatever you will, it works and it focuses me
for the day ahead.

8:45A.M. I take a call from the guy trying to jack up the prices on the
fixtures for a new building. Doesn't he know I know the market prices for
everything I'm doing? These jerks think I don't do my homework--that's
what it boils down to. Which means they're all in for a big surprise, and if
I have to yell to get my point across, that's what I do.

9:00A.M. I ask Rhona to call Bob Wright, the chairman and CEO of NBC. In
addition to being a great admirer of his business acumen, I am friends
with Bob and his wonderful wife, Suzanne. We've done some deals
together, and in the seventeen years since he went from General Electric to
NBC, the network has seen enormous improvements in quality control as
well as growth in the right directions. Bob takes my call and we chat about
a lot of things. Have you ever noticed that some people have a knack for
enlightened conversation? Bob is one of those people. He's never been
boring for one second of his life. I'm glad he takes the time to talk to me,
and, considering his schedule, it's a good sign that maybe I don't bore him
either.

Norma comes in to remind me that I have a Police Athletic League Board
of Directors meeting next week. I am active with the Police Athletic
League and have been for many years. They do a great job in New York
and benefit many people and neighborhoods.
9:15A.M. I take a call from Alfons Schmidt, who is someone I hold in very
high esteem, not just because he's a great golfer and businessman, but
because he's a remarkable person. Those who know him will agree with
me. We'll meet on Friday for a round of golf at Trump National Golf Club
in Briarcliff Manor. It's a high for me to play on the course with someone
like Alfons. We'll be joined by former president Bill Clinton as well, who is
a member. He lives nearby and likes the course, and we welcome him at
any time. He's managed to become a good golfer, and, considering the
schedule he had for so many years, that's saying something. If he keeps up
this rate of improvement, he'll get really good very fast. Joining us will
also be David Granger, the editor in chief of Esquire, a dapper guy on and
off the golf course. It's a rare occasion that I take an afternoon off, but
considering the company I'll be in, it will be worth it.

9:45A.M. Ivanka, my beautiful daughter, calls to tell me about her most
recent trip. She's on holiday and is taking off for somewhere else
tomorrow. Keeping track of her isn't easy, but she's good about keeping
me informed, and I'm happy she's enjoying herself. I'm a lucky guy with a
daughter like this.

10:00A.M. I have a board meeting in the conference room with Mark
Brown and Bob Pickus from my Atlantic City team. John Burke and Scott
Butera join us. We have these meetings every three months, to iron out
any problems, to go over numbers, and to keep an eye on the future.
Considering how large our operations are in Atlantic City--I have three
casino hotels--our meetings are relatively brief; they rarely last more than
two hours. My team knows the value of time and exactly how not to waste
it. People often comment on the brevity of my meetings, but if everyone
knows what they're doing, they don't need to be long or long-winded.
Fortunately, I have experienced people on my teams, and they know how
I operate, so they get to the point, and quickly.

12:00P.M. We have sandwiches from the Carnegie Deli in the boardroom.
Ever had one of their ham-and-cheese or corned beef sandwiches? They're
great. When you visit New York, try one.

12:15P.M. I'm not antisocial, but to me, fifteen minutes is a very long lunch.
So I'm back in my office, getting back to business, perusing the thirty-
seven phone calls that came in during the meeting. These are the phone
calls that have already been screened, first by the receptionist, and then by
my assistants. I get hundreds of calls a day from around the world from
people who just want to say hi or to tell me something. My security team
takes some of the calls as well, because the number of calls can be
overwhelming. But these are thirty-seven legitimate calls that must be
dealt with, and I begin returning them. First I return Bob Kraft's call. He'd
invited me to a private Elton John concert, which was terrific. Elton John
just gets better and better; he's amazing. Bob Kraft is a first-class act all the
way and always a delight to talk to. It's a good way to start the afternoon.

12:30P.M. Joe Torre stops by for a surprise visit. He's the manager of the
New York Yankees and always a welcome guest. He takes the time to sign
autographs on his way in and on his way out. A real champ.

12:45P.M. I return Rudy Giuliani's call. He was a great mayor, and he saw
New York City through some difficult times. In addition to my respect for
him professionally, we are also friends and we keep in touch. I will always
wish him the best--and his wife, Judy, is tops!

1:00P.M. The TV team from the National Geographic Channel are here for
an interview. They've done great work, and I decide we should go up to
my apartment for the interview. I don't often do that, but they are pros,
and it goes very well. For the most part, I get along very well with media
people. I respect them and the jobs they do, and they usually respect me
and my time limits. It works both ways, and it's a rare occasion when we
clash.

1:45P.M. I take a call from Mohamed Al Fayed, the owner of Harrods in
Knightsbridge, London, and the Ritz in Paris. He's one of a kind, a
gentleman all the way, and I always make a point of visiting him when
I'm in London. He's remained a kind and loyal person despite the
tragedies in his life, and I am honored when he calls.
2:00P.M. I call my brother, Robert. He's a great guy, and a good brother to
have. We keep in close contact, and I consider myself lucky to have the
brother and sisters that I've got.

Melania calls to remind me that we are going to see Chicago on Broadway
tonight. I've seen it before, but Melanie Griffith is currently starring in it,
and we want to see her. I already know she'll be terrific--she's a natural.

I return twelve calls in rapid succession, most of them concerning my
different properties in New York and Florida. Each time, I ask what the
problem is, and we get to it immediately. I like to keep a handle on all my
properties, and the problems are to be expected. The time I worry the most
is when there aren't any problems. That's usually the result of
misinformation or wishful thinking on someone's part.

Here's one of my greatest wishes: I would like a computer chip that I
could attach to the brains of all my contractors so they'd know exactly
what I wanted, when I wanted it, and at what price. This would save me a
lot of time, a lot of phoning, and a lot of yelling.

3:00P.M. I take a walk over to Trump Park Avenue, my new super-luxury
building on Park Avenue and Fifty-ninth Street. This was the former
Delmonico Hotel, which has historical merit, and the location is about as
prime as you can get in New York. It's a prize building, and I make almost
daily visits to see how it's progressing. I visit Laura Cordovano in the sales
office, then check out the construction. They are taking too long, and the
lobby doesn't look up to my standards yet. They get an earful, and they
deserve it. When my name is on something, it'd better be great. Could it
be any simpler?

It's funny, the reaction I get from people when I walk down the street and
get recognized. Sometimes it's a double take, sometimes there's no
acknowledgment, but often it's a wave and a familiar and friendly "Hi,
Donald!" from total strangers. It still takes me by surprise. Once I was
stuck in a horrible traffic jam in my limousine, and I had a few members of
Mark Burnett's team with me, so I decided to try an experiment. It was
one of those traffic jams where we hadn't moved an inch in ten minutes,
and tempers were red-hot, with taxi drivers yelling and everyone else as
well, and every car seemed to have its horn on permanent full blast. I
decided to step out of my limousine and just stand there in the middle of
this chaos. The reaction? At first, dead silence. Then the fuming drivers
and passengers started waving and shouting "Donald! It's The Donald!
Hi, Donald!" I had to laugh. At least we had some relief from the honking
horns for a few minutes.

4:00P.M. Back in my office. I make a call downstairs, as I'd noticed some of
the lobby door handles weren't as polished as I'd like them to be. I want
my buildings to be impeccable, and the people who inhabit them
appreciate that, even if I might seem a bit extreme at times.

I receive a letter from a U.S. serviceman overseas, Terry Simmons. His
morale-building idea for his unit is to receive an autographed photograph
from me. I am very touched by this request, and we send it off right away.
These men and women are putting their lives on the line to protect
something I cherish, which is this country. One of the great moments of
my life was being honored, along with General John M. Keane, by the
USO in 2002. In my speech I mentioned that accepting this honor put me
in the finest company imaginable, because every member of the United
States armed forces was being honored alongside me. I meant it then, and
I still mean it today. We send our best to Terry Simmons.

4:30P.M. Giuseppe Cipriani, who has one of the best restaurants in New
York, calls. As someone who goes out to dinner a lot, I have very
particular tastes, and Giuseppe is someone who will never let you down. I
am trying to get him into my Park Avenue building.
The mysterious Jeffrey calls in. As mysterious as Jeffrey is, he's one of the
few people I know who can get by on just a first name. My staff never asks
for a last name in his case, which in a way puts him up there with Elvis.
Not that Elvis calls in much these days, but you never know. That's why I
have a floor for security. Sometimes we need it. We've had some calls you
wouldn't believe.

Norma comes in to tell me she's had it with The Apprentice TV crew
looking like "ragamuffins" and that if they show up tomorrow in their
usual gear she's going to send them back to their hotel "to dress properly
for a change." She means business and I know it, so I try to explain that
they're from California and working on a TV-show set, not in our
corporate office, but she'll have none of it. I think they're in for it, and I
don't envy them.

I call Vinnie Stellio, a longtime employee whose wife has just had a baby
boy. Vinnie could've been a movie star with his looks and swagger, but,
fortunately, he works for us. He also could've written his own scripts, but
he's busy enough as it is.

5:00P.M. I call Arnold Schwarzenegger to congratulate him on his recent
decision to run for governor of California. I've also received several media
calls asking me for my opinion on his decision. I've always liked Arnold,
and I think he'll make a great governor, not just because I like him but
because he's got the smarts and energy to run a state like California.

I read an article by a journalist who spent a day with me a few months
ago. I remember him saying that he felt one day wouldn't be sufficient,
and I remember telling him that most people felt that one day with me
was enough. At the end of the article, he admits I was right--that one day
with me was enough--he was completely exhausted. It's funny, because

to me it seemed like a more relaxing and low-key day than I usually have,
and I was certainly on my best behavior. Anyway, it's nice to be right.

5:30P.M. Norma comes in to review media requests, charity requests, and
invitations. Since September 11, requests for charity have increased
sharply, and we do what we can. We comment on how we receive a
consistently high number of letters from Canada. One letter is from two
ladies in Saskatchewan who have invited me to have a cup of coffee with
them at their local coffeehouse, which has two tables. If I decide to accept,
they will do their best to reserve a table for me. Due to my schedule, I have
to decline, but their offer is genuine and kind, and if I had the time, I'd go.

Sometimes I answer media requests myself, when I have time. Once I
called a guy named Phil Grande in Florida. He has a small radio program,
Stock Trading & Money Talk, and he had faxed me an interview request. I
picked up the phone and called him myself. When he asked who was
calling, I said, "Donald Trump," and he said, "Yeah, and I'm J. P.
Morgan." It took some convincing on my part, but he finally believed me,
and we chatted for some time. Afterward, he called my assistants to verify
that I had indeed called him, and to this day he sends them flowers every
Christmas. People like Phil can make our jobs a lot of fun.

6:00P.M. Asprey, the jewelers who occupy the corner of Trump Tower on
Fifth Avenue, are expanding, and they've invited me down to see the
renovations. They will have three floors, and it will be stunning--much
like their jewelry. They are the jewelers to the royal family in England, and
their new space will reflect that status when it's done. I also decide to
check on my new tenants, Mark Burnett Productions, on the way down to
the lobby, to see that everything is up to par. I have a great management
team, but I like to check things out for myself as much as possible. I make
a quick call to Melania to check on dinner plans before the theater, and I
leave the office.
9:00A.M. Melanie Griffith was terrific in Chicago last night, and we visited
her afterward to tell her so.

I take a call regarding placing antennas on The Trump Building at 40 Wall
Street. Since the World Trade Towers are gone, 40 Wall Street is once again
the tallest building in lower Manhattan. It's not a fact that particularly
appeals to me, but it is a fact. Whatever will best serve the Financial
District is fine with me.

I have to say one thing about New Yorkers, and that is that after
September 11, they just continued to move forward and do their best. That
took courage, and I think it shows what makes New York City such a
great place.

I place a call to Governor Pataki, and take a call from John Myers,
president of GE Asset Management. We've done some deals together and
he's a great guy--and a very smart one.

9:30A.M. Kevin Harris, a supervising producer for Mark Burnett, is ready
to take me on a tour of the sets built in Trump Tower for The Apprentice.
He has on some sort of a new vintage bowling shirt, deconstructed jeans
with more holes than fabric, and some very original footwear that I can't
begin to describe. This guy could make Helmut Lang look old hat, but we
make a quick getaway before Norma can see him.

The construction site also includes living quarters for the sixteen
contestants, which is an incredibly stylish ten-thousand-square-foot loft,
probably the only such living space in midtown. I am pleasantly surprised
at the quality of the work, and my trust in Mark Burnett is again
10:00A.M. Back in my office, I begin returning calls. People are surprised at
how many hours I put in at my office each week, since I seem to have a
busy social life as well. I also like to plan my business trips for the
weekends whenever possible, to avoid missing office time. I love what I
do, so it doesn't seem like I'm missing out on any fun. Last year I took a
transatlantic weekend business trip that included breakfast in London
with Mohamed Al Fayed and dinner in Slovenia with Melania's parents
before flying back to New York. We were back in time for me to be in the
office by 9:00A.M. Monday.

I talk to Jay Goldberg, a brilliant lawyer and an old friend. He and his
wife, Rema, will join me in my box at the U.S. Open.

This is a good one: The pushiest broker in New York calls in for a chat
about the availability of some of my prime apartments, as if I couldn't
guess why she was calling me in the first place. She tries to tell me what
my apartments are worth, and I try to control my temper, but she's full of
bullshit. Finally, I ask her if she realizes who she's talking to and,
surprisingly, she immediately becomes reasonable. Almost every day, I
have to remind someone that maybe I know what I'm doing, and while
that may sound like I'm tooting my own horn, believe me, it saves a lot of
yelling time.

10:30A.M. The German TV team is ready for an interview in the conference
room. They'd done a wonderful job in covering Mar-a-Lago a few months
ago, which I appreciate, and so we're doing a New York interview. They
are professional and enthusiastic, and all goes well. You see, I've done so
many interviews that at times they can be boring for me, so if the people
are interesting, it helps a lot. Just this year, both of my sons did their first
TV interviews, and that was exciting. The Today show did a Father's Day
program, and Matt Lauer interviewed Don Jr. and myself, which was
great fun. Both Matt Lauer and Katie Couric have a knack for making
anything entertaining, and I enjoy them tremendously. 48 Hours
interviewed my younger son, Eric, and myself, and aside from some
slumping on his part, Eric did a great job. The media really isn't anything
new to my kids, although they've been protected from it to a certain
extent.

11:00A.M. I receive an invitation to attend the show of Oscar de la Renta's
new collection, and I call Melania. We decide to attend. I've never gotten
tired of fashion or fashion shows. To me, it's an unbeatable combination--
beautiful women and beautiful clothes, especially Oscar's.

My agency, Trump Model Management, has managed to put itself on the
fashion map in a relatively short time. I started it about five years ago.
We've got some top models, and I enjoy watching this business become
more and more successful. I call John Tutolo for an update, and we discuss
a few things that we think could be improved.

I call Paula Shugart, president of the Miss Universe Organization, to go
over a few things with her. An interviewer recently asked me what
motivated me to buy the rights to the Miss Universe pageant. My answer
was that I love beautiful women and I'm also a businessman, so it seemed
like a good idea, which it has turned out to be. Sometimes things are that
simple. I realized early on that I was an aesthete by nature, being attracted
to beauty in both people and buildings. My work has shown that some
early self-knowledge was right on target.

I take a call from Ricardo Bellino, a businessman in Brazil. We are working
on the Villa Trump together in Brazil, and he's also asking me some
questions for his upcoming book on the power of ideas. I mention that
ideas are door openers, the first step. Without a first step, there won't be
any other steps to take you where you want to go. It's a visual process.
Perhaps that's why I'm a visionary, but a well-grounded one. When it

comes to great ideas, the first questions I ask myself are: Yeah, but is it
possible? Will this be feasible? If I can see something being accomplished, I
know it is a possibility. I guess that's why I'm a builder. I start from the
ground and go up from there.

I write a congratulatory note to Kitty Carlisle Hart for her ninety-third
birthday. In addition to being multitalented, she's been a true
philanthropist, and New York is lucky to have her. I always liked to watch
her on television. Those of you who remember the television show To Tell
the Truth will know what I'm talking about.

I write another note to a high school that has asked me for advice, and also
asked who my favorite U.S. president might be. I decide to start with a
quote by Abraham Lincoln, who would have to be my first choice: "I will
study and prepare, and perhaps my chance will come." Always humble,
always hardworking, always studying, Lincoln is a great example for high
school kids.

11:30A.M. The Entertainment Channel is ready for an interview regarding
The Apprentice. It goes quickly and well, and we're done in five minutes.

12:00P.M. I call an employee at a large property who has not been as
attentive as his position demands. I tell him that his bad performance is
not his fault, but mine: I simply hired the wrong person by overestimating
his capabilities. I add that if he'd like to change my mind about my initial
mistake, it's up to him. He promises to take care of things right away, and
I think he means it.

I ask Andy Weiss to come in. His office is about 110 feet down the hall, but
he can hear me. The reason we don't have an intercom system is because
we don't need one. This often startles visitors, but, as I see it, why have
more gadgets than necessary? Andy's been with me a long time, and we
get right to the point. The meeting's over in less than five minutes.

I call Beverly Sills, one of the most wonderful opera singers of all time, and
an equally wonderful person. I may not enjoy sitting through an opera,
but I have always respected opera singers and enjoy the highlights of
opera. Beverly is remarkable in every way, and I always enjoy talking to
her.

12:30P.M. I decide to have a slice of pizza for lunch, and I read a few of the
letters that have come in. Here's one from a young man in the Bay Area of
San Francisco who writes, "This letter is in appreciation for inspiring us in
hard times. Please continue writing your books and influencing people to
live their dreams." He'll be happy to know that's exactly what I'm doing,
even as I eat my pizza and read his letter. Here's another one from a
family in Germany, who thinks I should run for president and invites me
to stay at their home. A business proposal comes from a group in Wales
who would like me to work on a housing development with them.

12:45P.M. I call Brian Baudreau, my executive of security, and tell him I
want to go over to Trump Place, my development along the Hudson
River. We go over to the West Side and check out what's going on with
construction. We meet with Paul Davis, the CEO of the Hudson
Waterfront Associates, and take a walk around. I get daily reports, but
there's nothing like seeing things for yourself. Paul has a big project on his
hands, and he's doing a terrific job.

I've encountered a lot of opposition from staunch West Siders about this
development, but gradually they are beginning to see that these buildings
will be an enhancement to their neighborhood. The West Side is thriving
like never before, and even as an East Sider, I've got to admit that the West
Side is a great place to be.

2:00P.M. Back in the office, I start returning the twenty-two calls that came
in. That's another reason I don't like to be out of the office too much--the
backlog of calls can get out of hand. The first call I return is to United
Cerebral Palsy, as I'm on the advisory board. One of the biggest perks of
being financially successful is being able to be generous. I like giving
money to good causes like United Way and the Police Athletic League. It
really is a great feeling every time I can be of help, and, for the most part,
that's a private part of my life. Some of my charities are public knowledge,
and some of them aren't.

2:30P.M. Robin Leach and his team are here for an interview. Robin is well
known for a reason. We have a great time, and it's a job well and quickly
done.

3:15P.M. I have a meeting with Carolyn Kepcher, executive vice president
and director of Trump National Golf Club in Briarcliff. We are building
some magnificent villas on the grounds, and there are a lot of details to
attend to. Fortunately, both of us are perfectionists, and our meetings
never have to be long.

3:30P.M. I take a call from David Schner, president of Leaders magazine. I'd
been interviewed a few months back and we still keep in touch.

Craig Semandl, the director of Trump National Golf Club, Los Angeles,
calls in. He gives me an update on what's happening, and we go over
some details. I will visit California later this month to see the progress for
myself. It helps to have people you can trust when you're three thousand
miles away.

This is something that still amazes me: Here's another person requesting
my autograph on the March 1990 issue of Playboy magazine, which
featured an interview and a cover photo of me. To this day, thirteen years
later, I receive several requests a month for my autograph on this issue,
and, granted, the girl I'm photographed with is a beauty, but I never
thought this interview would remain so popular with people who follow
my career. I'll have to reread it one of these days. Meanwhile, I sign the
cover and it's sent back to the owner, and I sign a few books that have
been sent in as well.

I make a call to Tiffany, my youngest daughter, who is giving me an
update on her latest activities. She has enough going on for five people.
She must take after me. She is excited about her upcoming birthday and
her plans to have a party aboard the Queen Mary in Long Beach,
California.

I write a note to the Veterans of Vietnam of Ward 4CD of Valley Forge
General Hospital. I am cochairman and builder of the New York Vietnam
Veterans Memorial Fund, and still continue to do what I can for these
brave people.

4:00P.M. I take a call from Susan James, director of sales for Trump
International Hotel and Tower on Central Park West. She has a great job--
this is one of the most successful condominium towers ever built and the
top-rated luxury hotel in New York City, all in one building. This is also
where Jean-Georges Restaurant is located. All in all, it's a gem, and I'm
proud of it. It's near Lincoln Center on Columbus Circle, and those of you
who know architecture will find it interesting that Philip Johnson
designed both this building and the State Theatre at Lincoln Center, home
of the New York City Ballet. I'm sort of young to be considered historical,
but some things point in that direction, and this building is one of those
things.

I go over the invitations and requests of the day with Norma. I decide on
an event given by Anna Wintour of Vogue magazine and leave the other
decisions until later, when I can give them more time and consideration.

Charlie Reiss comes in and we go over current project developments in
Chicago, Toronto, and London. Bernie Diamond and Jason Greenblatt, my
terrific in-house attorneys, are in on the meeting as well. Contrary to what
people may think, I listen to and take advice from a lot of people before I
make a final decision on anything. I like to be as well informed as possible.
However, when it comes to making a decision, I am aware that the full
responsibility for that decision is, and will always remain, mine. That is
why I proceed with caution, even if my image may be more flamboyant.

4:30P.M. I have a meeting with Matthew Calamari, my chief of operations.
He's always a busy guy, but with The Apprentice starting up soon, he's
busier than ever. I'm not concerned, because after knowing Matthew for
more than twenty years, I am certain he can handle anything.

My son Eric stops by to say hello. He's in college now but is visiting New
York City for a couple of days. He sits in on my meeting with Matthew
and then we chat for a bit. He's got a great grin. I love it when my kids
visit, and we decide to have dinner together tonight.

5:15P.M. I write a welcome-back letter to the members of the Mar-a-Lago
Club. We are finishing a new ballroom, and it will be magnificent. One
visitor to the Mar-a-Lago Club remarked that F. Scott Fitzgerald and his
friends would feel right at home there. I had to agree. I'm looking forward
to the new season, and I fly down most weekends during the winter.

I return a few calls, including one to Larry King, one of the sharpest
interviewers of all time; another to a reporter for the Star-Ledger in New
Jersey; and one to a reporter doing a story on the wonderful and very
smart Russell Simmons.

John Myers, the president and CEO of GE Asset Management, calls in.
He's a terrific guy in every sense of the word, and we are active together
with the Damon Runyon Cancer Foundation, along with Dale Frey, who
preceded John at GE and likewise did an absolutely fantastic job. These
are two guys worth knowing. Over the years, General Electric has been

my partner in a number of my developments, including the very
successful Trump International Hotel and Tower at 1 Central Park West.

6:00P.M. I call Melania to see where we should take Eric for dinner. We
decide on the "21" Club.

Norma comes in and we review some details of my deals, invitations,
letters, and media requests, including those from a surprising number of
international television programs and publications. Last year I did an
interview for the number one program in China, which drew a huge
audience. These facts continue to surprise me, probably because I am so
focused on my immediate and daily responsibilities. I never found myself
to be particularly fascinating.

The phones have quieted down, so I decide to go through a box I keep
beside my desk where I put articles and letters of interest to me.
Sometimes I'll keep certain articles for years if I like them. I also keep
letters and quotes, such as "Hope is not a strategy." I saved an invitation
from a speech I gave to the Wharton Business School Club about the
future of New York City. I am always honored to speak to Wharton
students and alumni.

I find nice notes from Dr. Jerry Buss of the Los Angeles Lakers, one terrific
guy; Ed Malloy, an old friend I call "Blue Eyes"; and Harrison Tucker
LeFrak, the next generation in a remarkable real estate family. Richard
LeFrak, the son of Sam LeFrak, has done an amazing job in the real estate
business. Likewise, his son Harrison will be one of the really great young
people to watch. I have no doubt he will go right to the top.

There's a clipping from Liza Minnelli and David Gest's wedding, which I
was honored to attend, even though I didn't think the marriage had a
chance, and letters from John F. Kennedy Jr. and Howard Schultz of
Starbucks, as well as one from Clint Eastwood, a great guy and golfer. He
was my guest at Mar-a-Lago. He liked my course in Florida and wrote to
tell me that.

I come across a fax from Roger Ailes of Fox Network News. What a job
he's done, taking them to heights they'd probably never dreamed of.

During the march toward war in Iraq, someone sent me this joke: "You
know the world has changed when you realize the best rapper is a white
guy, the best golfer is a black guy, and Germany doesn't want to go to
war."

A review to savor, from Rick Remsnyder upon the opening of Trump
National Golf Course: "Trump National's par 3 thirteenth hole, which
features a breathtaking 100-foot man-made waterfall behind the green, is
one of the most challenging and spectacular holes in the world." Music to
my ears.

I love sports. I have one of Shaquille O'Neal's oversized sneakers on
display in my office and a signed baseball from my favorite team, the New
York Yankees. I keep it near Tiffany's drawing of a house. She's already
into real estate. Speaking of real estate: I've saved an article about how I
sold the land under the Empire State Building for $57.5 million in March
2002. New York real estate can be a wonderful business. I've also clipped a
profile of another great success story, developer Steve Witkoff, who owns
the Woolworth Building and the News Building, in addition to valuable
property in London. In an interview with a London newspaper, Steve
described me as "the only real estate person in this world who can brand
his name individually. In my opinion, it's not going to happen again.
Donald is a master at marketing. But you can't market and be a master at
marketing unless you've got great product--it doesn't work like that.
They say `Coke are masters at marketing Coke,' or `Nike, they're masters
at marketing Nike.' You know what? They've got the best drink and the
best sneakers. Well, Donald develops the best buildings. It's a fact of life.
He's a great developer. No one wants to give him credit for that."

            "To Donald Trump--`I wanna be like you when I grow up.' Shaq."
Finally, I come across a postcard from my gorgeous daughter Ivanka and
an old postcard from my parents. I miss them. I still have two-thirds of the
box to go through, but I'm on for dinner with Eric and Melania and I don't
want to be late.

7:00P.M. I pick up a large pile of documents to take with me, say good
night to Norma, turn off the lights, leave my office, and head up to my
apartment. It's been a good day. Business tip: Keep a box by your desk for
mementos of the people and events that matter in your life and career.
Reviewing the contents every now and then will keep you aware of your
good fortune.
8:30A.M. This morning I have an interview with the legendary Barbara
Walters, regarding the upcoming anniversary of September 11. All goes
well; she's professional and to the point, which always helps. I am also
planning a surprise visit this morning to Barbara's show, The View, as I
have been the center of their discussions for a few days. They've been
waiting for me to call them, which I haven't done, as I think a personal
appearance might be more fun, although they don't know about it yet. If
someone challenges you, always try to take the challenge and run with it.

9:15A.M. I have a meeting with Elaine Diratz, the director of sales at
Trump World Tower at the United Nations Plaza. This condominium
tower experienced a lot of opposition while it was being built, but it has
literally been a triumph, both nationally and internationally. Even though
Herbert Muschamp of The New York Times has lauded it and it has recently
won a coveted European award for design, that doesn't mean we sit back
in wonder at our good fortune. Everything requires upkeep, especially
something of this caliber--plus it is in constant demand as a location site
for films and television shows. Elaine and I troubleshoot the latest details.

9:45A.M. Don Jr. comes in to update me on his work. He's sharp and has
some good insights on a few of our developments. It makes me think that
maybe he's paid attention all these years after all. Norma comes in to tell
me I should get going.

10:00A.M. Brian and I go over to the ABC studios on the West Side, to tape
a special segment with Regis Philbin. It's a beautiful day and the city is
sparkling--and as ever, so are Regis and Kelly.

11:00A.M. I am lurking in the studios of Barbara Walters's show The View,
where I see Sharon Stone, who is a scheduled guest. At the top of the
program, they are still discussing my hair and why I haven't called them
back. Joy Behar mentions that here she is still waiting for some guy to call,
and Meredith Vieira mentions that expecting Donald Trump to call her
back might be expecting too much. This conversation continues for a
while--will he call?, won't he call?--and then I decide to just walk out
onto the set. The audience shrieks when they see me, and Joy is, well, not
exactly overjoyed but certainly surprised. I receive a very warm welcome
from Barbara, Star, and Meredith, and I think Joy is relieved to know that
I'm not at all in a huff over her remarks. I even let her touch and rearrange
my hair and explain that while it may not be great hair, it's mine, and it's
fine with me. We have a good time, and I think we'll all have to agree that
a visit is better than a phone call.

12:00P.M. Steve Wynn is here to visit me. We chat for a while and then I
take him on a tour of The Apprentice sets being built downstairs. Steve and
I are close friends--again!

12:30P.M. This is an unusual day, even for me. Sandra Bullock is here to
visit, so she comes into the conference room where I'm having a meeting,
just to say hi. I think the guys in the room are very impressed, and so am I,
but I try to act cool. After all, my life isn't exactly dull, but getting a visit
from Sandra is a highlight for everyone--especially the contractors, who
cannot believe that it is actually her.

1:00P.M. Robin, one of my assistants, is eating a great-looking salad, so I
ask her to order one for me. Then I start returning calls that came in while
I was out, including one to Bob Tisch, owner of the Giants and Loews
Hotels. The Tisch family has been a tremendous force for good in New
York City, and I like Bob a lot. Most of the people I know don't take lunch
hours, so when I return calls at lunchtime it means I actually want to talk
to them

I talk to Ashley Cooper, director of Trump National Golf Club at
Bedminster, New Jersey, for an update on progress. I'll visit next week by
helicopter to check things out for myself.

I call Sirio Maccioni, the owner of Le Cirque, one of my favorite
restaurants in New York. We've decided to have a business dinner there
tonight; while getting a table isn't a problem, I like to talk to Sirio just to
catch up on things. He has the instincts required to run a great restaurant,
as well as the manners. I always look forward to seeing him.

1:30P.M. I see Norma in the small conference room, meeting with the Bank
One executives about a credit card, the Trump card, which I am starting.
Everyone tells me this will be a great success, and it is going very well.

Aretha Franklin's assistant calls to see if I can attend her concert at Radio
City later in the month. Aretha is one of the all-time greats, but,
unfortunately, I will be out of town on business. That's one of the
downsides of having a busy schedule, but it's flattering to hear from
Aretha.

One of the things I think about when my schedule gets a little crazy is a
labyrinth. Labyrinths date back to the ancient Greeks and usually imply
something intricate or complex. Thinking about them helps me, because
my schedule can make a labyrinth look like tic-tac-toe, so it becomes a
soothing visual for me. That may be some convoluted psychology, but it
works. Later on, I learned that there are some famous labyrinths still
around today, such as the one at Chartres Cathedral, in France, and that
they serve some meditative purpose, but the motive for me has always
been to gain perspective on my own agenda.

As they say, whatever works.

2:00P.M. I attend the board meeting for one of my residential properties in
the small conference room. I think anyone who lives in any of my
buildings is fortunate, not just to be in a great building, but because we
take pride in upkeep and service. We try to cater to the people living and
working in my buildings in every way possible, so these meetings are
important to me, and here's the reason: Past, present, and future tenants
and owners have one very important quality in common. They all want
the best for their money, which allows me to give you a simple formula for
success: Deliver the goods.

A lady in a building across from one of mine actually called in to complain
to us. Her complaint? The constant cleaning and polishing of my building
was making her crazy. Every time she looked outside and across the
street, someone was cleaning something, which she thought was excessive
and unnecessary, and that I must have some sort of a problem that should
be taken care of. Ever hear of New York stories? The funny part is that we
don't have to make them up.

2:45P.M. I decide to take a tour of the office. First I visit Bernie Diamond,
my general counsel, who is conferring with Sonja Talesnik. Then I see
Andy Weiss and Don Jr. about something they're working on. I pass Scott
Etess, who is on the phone, and see Charlie, Jill, and Russell in the
conference room. I stop by to visit Micha Koeppel, VP of construction, and
notice that Nathan Nelson and Anna DeVincentis are both busy on their
phones. I ask my accounting team, Jeff McConney and Eric Sacher, to meet
with me and Allen Weisselberg at 4:30. I see Ramon dealing with an
enormous pile of mail, which we get plenty of around here. Everyone

looks busy to me, and there's a nice hum to all the activity. On my way
back, I stop to chat with George Ross and Jason Greenblatt. I notice some
doorknobs need polishing and that the copy room needs to be cleaned up
a bit, but on the whole, the office is looking good. We've been in our
Trump Tower offices for twenty years, and they still look brand-new.

3:00P.M. I agree to go to Ferragamo's new store opening and the Luca Luca
fashion show at Bryant Park, and we're trying to arrange my weekend
schedule, which at this point is a whirlwind, even with a helicopter. It's a
good thing I'm an active type, or this might tire me out.

Reggie Jackson stops by for a quick visit. He is always welcome here, and
my staff loves it when he visits. We chat for a few minutes, and I
remember all the incredible moments he has given us as a Yankee. Truly a
great.

I return calls to Jay Neveloff, David Scharf, and my brother Robert, and
make a call to Wollman Rink to see how we did with our summer
attraction, Victorian Gardens. We used the ice rink space as an upscale
amusement park for children during the summer months, and since this is
our first season doing so, I'm interested in a firsthand account.

3:30P.M. I take a walk over to Trump Park Avenue, at Park and Fifty-ninth.
As I said, I like to keep my eye on things, and I never find property checks
tedious. This is such a beautiful building. I remember being interviewed
last year by The New York Times about both the building itself and the real
estate market in New York. I told them "People would rather invest in real
estate than in Enron and WorldCom. You can touch it, feel it, smell it. As
opposed to Enron, which you can only smell." Costas Kondylis mentioned
that this building also had an advantage over properties that boast of
being prewar-like, in that this building is definitely not prewar-like. It is
prewar. Anyway, the work is coming along and it's looking good.

I guess someone saw The View on TV this morning, because, as I'm
walking back, a lady says "Hey, Donald! Your hair looks great!" Whoever
you are, thanks.

4:30P.M. I take a call from Joe Cinque regarding Sardinia. That's pretty far
away but he says that next to Mar-a-Lago, it's his favorite place, and this
guy travels all over the world. I'll have to check into it a bit.

I have a short meeting with my finance group, Allen, Jeff, and Eric. I
should have a picture of these guys for you--what a crew! However, they
do good work. People often ask me where I find the people who work for
me. I think it must be divine intervention, if there is such a thing. But
somehow, it all works. Remember how I once said that you should try to
get people you like to work for you? These guys are a good example of
that advice.

4:50P.M. Rhona comes in to tell me that Jim Griffin is on the line. Ever
heard of the William Morris Agency? He's the guy to know. Jim is another
example of someone who will always tell it like it is, which I appreciate.
He'll give you the facts, and fast.

5:00P.M. I get a lot of letters from students of all ages who ask me specific
things--either for school projects or for their own interest--and, while I
can't respond to them all, I like to review their letters. Sometimes the
simplicity and directness of their questions can keep me aware of small
and simple things. As Benjamin Franklin once said, "Beware of little
expenses. A small leak will sink a great ship." In business, nothing is ever
too small to notice.

5:30P.M. I review a pile of legal documents, making short notes on them
for response by my assistants tomorrow morning. If we didn't keep up
with our correspondence several times a day, we'd be sunk. I receive
requests from people in every industry under the sun, moon, and stars


combined. My daily delivery includes submissions from artists, musicians,
screenwriters, architects, authors, poets, comedians, chefs, designers,
actors, shoemakers, and more. That's a condensed list. I also receive
bundles of cookbooks from a lady in Illinois several times a year. Why she
does this is beyond me. She must know that one of the few things I don't
do is cook.

6:30P.M. Enough ruminating. I check my faxes and go upstairs.

8:30A.M. The electrical contractors call in with some bogus claims about
why they're way off schedule. They've been slacking off on the job. I've
been watching them carefully and know exactly what their problem is,
and proceed to tell them so. They get the message and promise me they
will get back on track. We'll see. I believe about twenty percent of what
contractors say, and that's on a good day. They know what I mean.

9:00A.M. I take a call from Dick Levy, a real gentleman, then I ask for a
Diet Coke. Another call concerns an ad I placed about slot machines at the
racetracks in New York, which I'm against. Without countless layers of
security, it will not be in the public's best interest, and I therefore mention
that it is obvious the ground under our racetracks is most fertile for
growing organized crime. The ad contains a photograph of Al Capone,
with the caption "He would have loved it." The bottom of the ad says,
"Paid for by a Committee of one, who may not always be right, but knows
what's wrong." I think the point is made.

Rhona asks about the Giants game next week, and I decide to go. I return
calls from Bo Dietl, Vinnie Stellio, and Ivana, and place a call to Jim Griffin
of the William Morris Agency. David Granger calls; Esquire magazine is
using an apartment in Trump World Tower as an example of the ultimate

man's apartment, the Esquire Apartment. I have to agree with him that it's
the ideal place.

I take a call from a writer doing an article on motivation and leadership.
One of the questions asked is how I handle a person who consistently
makes the same mistakes. I tell them the truth: I don't. They're working
for someone else now.

9:30A.M. I take a moment to glance out the window, which I rarely do,
even with the spectacular views from my office. There is something
inspiring about New York City, and I feel fortunate to live here. Just as I'm
thinking this, a call comes in from Los Angeles Confidential Magazine for a
comment on their publication. I tell them that Los Angeles is as viable a
cosmopolitan center as New York City, which it is, and that I think their
magazine has a lot of integrity. I always enjoy my trips to California, and
with my new golf course in Los Angeles, I'll be able to spend more time
there in the near future. I decide to call Jason Binn, just to catch up on
things with him. He's a successful magazine publisher, and I haven't
spoken to him for a couple of weeks. I enjoy his take on things.

Tom Fazio calls in to go over some course plans and to give me an update
on my New Jersey golf course. He loves what he does and that's made
apparent by his attention to detail. John Mack of Credit Suisse calls in.
Despite his great accomplishments, he remains an unassuming man--the
work is what matters to him. These are two easy and informative calls.
People have to understand that I've been dealing with all kinds of people
and industries for a long time, so I can pretty readily discern who the
goof-offs are and who the solid-gold people are. So if you hear me blow
up in my office at someone or something, there's usually a reason for it. It
can be as clear as day to me, and I see no reason to tolerate someone being
inefficient or irresponsible. I do my best, and so should they.

I heard someone who had worked with me for a long time describing me
as a generator--someone who revs up, keeps going, gathers momentum,
keeps going at a higher level, and all is well--except for the boiling point.
Because when something causes me to explode, believe me, there will be a
lot of energy behind it. But, hey, at least I can be honest about it, and his
assessment is accurate. A great Palm Beach lawyer called me a reverse
tornado--I build everything in my path, instead of destroying it.

Robin comes in to tell me the copies I want are delayed because our copy
machine is on the blink again. I can't believe it. With all the amazing
inventions of today, can't they design a copy machine that won't break
down every three minutes? This is one thing that can make me lose my
temper. I personally call Pete Strada, our director of purchasing, and ask
him when the lease is up on this terrible machine. I want it out of here.

10:00A.M. Norma comes in and we go over the event I'm hosting with
Heidi Klum and Jonathan Tisch for the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS
Foundation. It will be held at Sotheby's next month. We also discuss some
interview requests and invitations, seeing if and how we can fit them into
my schedule. Every week we think that week can't be topped, then the
next week is even more hectic, so what's happened is that our stamina has
increased. I am much busier now than I have ever been. That's one reason
I don't complain much. I literally don't have time to.

I take a call from Tony Senecal, the head butler and historian at Mar-a-
Lago. This guy is terrific and a great asset to Mar-a-Lago. He fills me in on
the latest, and I'm glad he has X-ray vision when it comes to details.

Jean-Georges Vongerichten calls in. In addition to being a genius when it
comes to food, he's also a visionary. He's a celebrity in his own right, but I
can tell you that what really matters to him is cooking--and when you
visit any of his restaurants, you'll find out what I mean.


10:30A.M. Tina Brown, of publishing fame, calls. We weren't always on
such good terms, but we put our differences aside. I enjoy talking with
her. She's quick and insightful.

I ask George Ross and Carolyn Kepcher to come in. I've decided they
should play themselves in pivotal roles on The Apprentice. They both agree
and do not seem put out at all. There won't be any acting involved,
because to them it will be another day on the job. Maybe a longer day on
the job, but just another day. Total pros.

I take a call from Jim Dowd, senior press manager at NBC, regarding The
Apprentice, and one from Jay Bienstock, a producer on The Apprentice. Both
guys know exactly what they're doing, which is a relief to me. Then I yell
at some contractors for a while. It's too boring to tell you about this, but
it's something that is absolutely necessary in real estate development and
construction. I spend much of my days doing this.

I take a call from Eliot Spitzer, the New York State attorney general. He is
one smart guy, who has an even more brilliant future ahead of him. He is
just amazing!

11:00A.M. I go down to the large conference room to see some plans for a
possible new development. Charlie, Russell, Jill, and Don Jr., my
development team, go over them with me. This could be a go, but I'll have
to think about it a bit more. I don't have a formula for making decisions--
each situation is unique, and I allow my assessment to be equally unique,
with no time constraints. When it's right, it will be right. I may have the
reputation of being brash, but I am very restrained in regard to making
decisions. People don't see the process--they only see the results.

11:30A.M. I return nine calls and realize I'm looking forward to having
lunch at the golf club and a round of golf with Bill Clinton, David
Granger, and Alfons. It's a beautiful day, and I love checking out the


course. That's one reason I don't feel too guilty about taking a Friday
afternoon off--I'll still be working.

Someone sends in a big box of Godiva chocolates. This will be tough, but
I'll just look at them for a while and then put them outside for my staff.
Who says I'm not a nice guy? Ditto for those Belgian truffles. Life can be
tough.

12:00P.M. I ask George Ross to come in, and we go over a few things.
George brings the word laconic to life. Five minutes with him equals one
hour with your average lawyer.

12:05P.M. I decide to call Mike Donovan. I want to see how the work is
going on my 727. He says it will be ready next week, which is good news,
as I want to visit my golf course in California.

12:15P.M. Mark Burnett and his two producers, Jay Bienstock and Kevin
Harris, come in for a meeting, to go over the assignments to be given to
the sixteen candidates on The Apprentice. This is an interesting process. We
want to make sure that each assignment has a purpose beyond
entertainment. These guys are not only nice, they're intelligent. I really feel
they've got their bases covered. Any apprehensions I had about the TV
show have evaporated.

12:45P.M. I go through twenty-seven requests, including invitations from
Norway, Peru, and India. Norma tells me I should view the video made
for Trump Park Avenue before I leave, which has some beautiful footage.
It's a great video.

1:00P.M. I collect my papers and faxes and ask Rhona to call the elevator
and to tell Eddie to have the car ready in fifteen minutes.

I make my exit. It's been a great week. I just hope the car is ready.
Otherwise, Eddie's in for it--big time.

Over the past few years, since reality shows came into vogue, television
networks have been trying to get me to do one. They approached me with
offers for substantial amounts of money, but the concept was always
predictable. They wanted to follow me around with cameras, watching me
make deals, brush my teeth, and, most certainly, comb my hair. None of
this appealed to me at all.
    One day, I was approached by the head of CBS Entertainment, Les
Moonves, who wanted to broadcast the live finale of the hit series Survivor
from Wollman Rink in Central Park, which I control through a long-term
lease. It sounded like a great idea to me, especially when they told me they
were going to build a jungle to replicate the one in which the Survivor
contestants had been living.
    When I arrived at Wollman Rink that night, I was amazed to see what
they had been able to do. They had transformed a city skating rink into an
exotic wildlife scene. As I was heading toward my seat, an attractive
young man approached me and said, "Hi, Mr. Trump, I'm Mark Burnett
and I'm the creator of Survivor."
    I said, "Mark, you don't have to tell me that. Everybody knows who
you are, but it's really nice to meet you."
    He said, "You know, Mr. Trump, I have an idea and I'd love to see you
at your earliest possible convenience."
    A week later, he came to my office. Before he got to his formal
presentation, he did what any smart entrepreneur would do: He made
sure he established a connection with me.
    He did this by telling me that I'm a genius. Some people may consider
such flattery excessive, but when you're on the receiving end, it's usually
okay.
    In the most passionate terms, he told me how, fifteen years ago, when
he was selling shirts on Venice Beach and barely making a living, he had
read a copy of The Art of the Deal. He said it had changed his life.
    "If that's so," I said, "why haven't you given me twenty percent?"
    He laughed heartily. I knew he was setting the table, but he was
setting it brilliantly. I was impressed.
    Then he told me his idea for The Apprentice--a series set in the jungle
of New York City, the toughest jungle of them all, where people tear each
other apart just to get an inch ahead of the competition.
    His idea was terrific: Have sixteen people compete in a televised
thirteen-week job interview, where the winner gets to become my
apprentice. Whoever won would get a six-figure job at The Trump
Organization for one year--maybe longer, if he or she was worth it.
    What appealed to me most was that the premise of The Apprentice
would be educational to viewers. People would be able to see how the real
business world works and what it takes to survive in it--or to even have a
chance to survive in it.
    I asked Mark what kind of a time commitment he would need from
me.
    Mark's words, which I will never forget and will always remind him
of, were: "Donald, believe me, the most time we would need is three hours
a week."
    I can affectionately say that I was a real schmuck for believing that
line.
     The first few episodes took about thirty hours each. But it turned out I
didn't mind. As time went by, I started to realize that this show could be
really big, and I wanted to devote the kind of time to it that Mark needed
me to give.
     When we pitched the project to the top networks for bids, everyone
wanted it. They loved the concept. We chose NBC, which also broadcasts
my Miss Universe, Miss USA, and Miss Teen USA pageants, so it was a
quick and easy deal. Neither side had to be convinced of anything, and
from the very first meeting, the relationship has been a strong one. Bob
Wright, the chairman of NBC, and Jeff Zucker, president of NBC
Entertainment, are the best in the business. They worked hard to promote
the show and were rewarded with rave reviews and the best ratings of
any new show of the season. I know this sounds like typical showbiz
hype, but it's all true.
     Once I got used to the time commitment, working on the show came
naturally, because, in effect, what I do on The Apprentice is what I do in
life: I hire people. I fire people. I make things work.
     One of my favorite aspects of the show are the dramatic entrances and
exits I get to make--from limousines and planes, or into the boardroom.
It's good to be the CEO, and it's even better to be the CEO on national TV.
It was also great to enlist the services of special guest stars such as George
Steinbrenner and Donny Deutsch, the best advertising man in the
business, as well as Regis, of course.
     When we announced the show to the media in one of the most
publicized job listings in recent memory, the reaction was instant and
huge. In the first week, we received over 86,000 website hits. Over 70,000
applications were downloaded--the first one from Hamburg, Germany.
The tally reached 215,000 before we finally stopped counting. This might
have been the biggest job application in history.
    Fortunately, Mark and his team knew what they were doing. After
reviewing the twelve-page applications and videotapes required of
prospective contestants, ten casting directors and five assistant casting
directors studied the materials further, narrowing the field to those
    Their screening process was comprehensive and thorough. In the spirit
of fairness, open calls were held in ten major U.S. cities. Tens of thousands
of people showed up. In New York City, at Trump Tower, those
thousands stood in the pouring rain for hours just to get a few moments of
consideration. Obviously, most of them didn't make it, but they've got
what it takes to succeed because they've got the guts to go for it.
   Seeing their enthusiasm really revved me up for the show. It also
bowled me over. I thought to myself, All these people want to work for me? It
was incredibly flattering. Then again, I doubt those people knew what
they might have been getting themselves into. I heard through the
grapevine at my office, on one particularly rough day, that the name for
The Apprentice competitors who didn't win spots on the show was "The
Lucky Fifteen."
   There were some amusing moments before we began taping. Mark
Burnett brought his adoring father, Archibald, to visit one day. After
meeting me, he said, "You're much more handsome in person than I
would have thought. Maybe you don't photograph so well. Good luck
with the show." Mark quickly interjected that his father was from Scotland
and tended to be on the blunt side. I think he's terrific.
   Mark is a lot of fun to be around--the British equivalent of a Green
Beret. He has no fear and tremendous positive energy, which is my idea of
a great leader. We're both big Neil Young fans, so one night, I took him to
a concert at the Taj Majal in Atlantic City and introduced him to Neil
backstage. Then we went to Naomi Campbell's party in New York City.
   I always made a point of mentioning Survivor when I introduced Mark
to people, but later I realized I was getting some confused looks when I
did it, particularly from a Chinese poker winner we met at the Taj Majal. It
took me a moment to figure out that Survivor probably isn't on TV in
China. The poker winner thought Mark was a cancer survivor and didn't
know what to say.
   When the crew of the show first appeared at Trump Tower, they
created a bit of a buzz. Our ordinary routine was altered by just their
presence. It was unusual to see all of those cameras. But within a couple of
weeks, it became part of the routine. Jay Bienstock and Kevin Harris, two
of Mark Burnett's producers, became fixtures of our organization. Then
NBC executive Jim Dowd became a regular. If anything, it was when they
weren't around that it seemed like something was amiss. They were never
an imposition, and we even missed them when taping was over.
    Unlike a scripted movie or TV show, The Apprentice that you have seen
on NBC is pretty much the way it was behind the scenes. That's the idea--
behind the scenes is in front of your eyes. Right away, I can hear you
saying, "But we heard the boardroom was a set, and not your boardroom
at all." That's true, but the only reason we built another boardroom was
because my own boardroom at The Trump Organization is in constant
use, and having a film crew in it every week for several months would
have disrupted my business. So we built a replica on the fourth floor of
Trump Tower. The reception area was also built there because the comings
and goings of the sixteen apprentices and a TV production crew would
have been a disturbance to our employees and our guests, some of whom
may not have been expecting a close-up.
    The set was built in Trump Tower so I could take an elevator and be
there in fewer than two minutes. My regular business schedule is hectic,
so traveling to and from an off-site location could have caused problems.
Using the space we had on-site proved to be a good decision
    The living quarters for the sixteen applicants were also built on the
fourth floor, and the equipment necessary for filming was installed there.
It was an amazing setup, with sound rooms, tech rooms, lights, cameras,
and what seemed like miles of cables. When I first saw it all, I realized the
immensity of the preparations that went into this show, with designers,
decorators, technicians, assistants, producers, and directors all working
like mad. At any point, there could be twenty-eight cameras going at once.
This was a big operation.
    One day after seeing this, I paused silently for a moment. What if the
show was a flop? All this work, all this energy... well, it just had to work.
And I was determined to do my best to make it a hit.
    The reassuring thing was that I didn't have to act. That gave me some
comfort. Mark Burnett told me that my value to the show would be in just
being myself. Is there such a thing as acting like yourself? I don't know,
but I try not to think about it. I'm just myself.
    I didn't have to read any scripts or learn any lines. Despite having a
great memory, I don't have time for that, anyway. Mark would appraise
me of the assignments for the applicants each week and we'd go from
there. I enjoyed the spontaneity of the process, because we don't rehearse
episodes in our daily business life. What happens, happens.
    What went on in the boardroom or anywhere else was not fabricated
in any way. If it seemed dramatic, that's because business is dramatic.
There's nothing boring about it. There's nothing passive about it, either--
even for viewer.
    Seeing the eagerness and anticipation of the sixteen winning
applicants was a rush in itself. I never used the word "contestants" in
describing them, because this was not a game. People who think their jobs
are a game aren't people I want to have around. A lot of these people
already had lucrative positions or businesses of their own, so they weren't
in it merely for some prize money. We made sure they were all serious
about learning something not only after the process but during it. This also
ensured that each applicant would be a winner, no matter what the
outcome of their quest turned out to be. How many other reality shows
have you seen that has only winners? That was another reason The
Apprentice was so appealing to me. There would be no losers in this win-
win situation. My kind of show.
    I know what you're thinking. But you fired fifteen people! Yeah, but look
what they got to do. Look what they got to see. Look what they learned.
    All of the tasks required of my would-be apprentices required
negotiation skills of one type or another. I was particularly interested in
the way the applicants approached the task of achieving maximum
savings from a list of items we told them to buy. Items ranged in value
from $10 to $550. The highest-ticket item that could be discounted was a
luxury golf club, a Callaway driver. The winning team homed in on this
item. The losers spent their time trying to buy gold, a relatively fixed-price
commodity. The winning team learned an essential lesson in negotiation
and business: If you win on the big point, you don't sweat the minor ones.
    The sixteen applicants quickly became people I liked and cared
about--in the way a boss cares about his employees. They were all
dynamic individuals with a lot on the ball. It wasn't easy to fire any of
them.


    Heidi Bressler, 30, an account executive from Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. Heidi is strong, and she kept her objectives in focus in her
dealings. She used her account executive background to her advantage in
keeping herself balanced.
    Jason Curis, 24, a real estate entrepreneur from Detroit, Michigan.
Jason has a lot on the ball, but he's young and a little rash. For those of you
who missed the episode, Jason cut me off, in mid-sentence, in the
boardroom. You never interrupt the boss in a meeting. You never interrupt
the client in a meeting, either. But he will continue to learn and achieve.
    Katrina Campins, 24, a real estate broker from Coral Gables, Florida.
Katrina is very accomplished already as a broker, which is a different
scenario from that of being the president of a company. I think she will
continue to prove herself in her field, possibly becoming an entrepreneur.
She will be a success in life.
    David Gould, 31, a health care venture capitalist from New York City.
David has an exceptional educational background, with both an MBA and

an MD, but business is not yet his forte. He surprised me in the first
episode when he said salesmanship was not one of his skills. Why
volunteer any deficiency? He was the first to be fired.
     Jessie Conners, 21, owner of a chiropractic marketing and
management company from New Richmond, Wisconsin. Jessie was an
interesting mixture of sophistication and innocence. She competed like an
experienced player, then did herself in by taking unnecessary abuse from
a colleague. You've got to fight back if you want to be successful in
business. But don't underestimate her.
     Bowie Hogg, 25, an account executive at FedEx, from Dallas, Texas.
Bowie has great determination, but when it came to selling, he fell short.
He learned a lot, and I'm confident he'll be successful in his career.
     Kristi Frank, 30, a real estate broker and restaurant owner from Bel
Air, California. Kristi knows a lot about the real world in many ways, due
to her business experience, but her failure to stand up for herself showed a
lack of one hundred percent focus on her immediate goal. She will do well
for herself if she focuses more.
     Kwame Jackson, 29, a Harvard MBA and investment manager at
Goldman Sachs, from New York City. He is smooth and collected, and will
do what is necessary to succeed. Kwame raised some eyebrows when he
signed basketballs at Planet Hollywood, implicitly suggesting to
customers that he was famous. Was it unethical? When you're desperate,
you sometimes have to push the envelope. Kwame was on a desperately
failing team. His judgment wasn't admirable, but I don't think he crossed
the line: He was supporting his team members.
     Amy Henry, 30, a manager at a high-tech start-up in Austin, Texas,
who owned millions of dollars in options and lost it all in the dot-com
bust. Amy is extremely bright and has great spirit, team and otherwise. I
don't think much can get her down, and she will excel.

    Troy McClain, 32, a mortgage lender in the insurance business and a
real estate developer, from Boise, Idaho. Troy is optimistic and realistic at
the same time. It's a great combination, and I expect him to do big things.
Plus it takes a brave man to have his legs waxed. That showed me how
much he really wanted the job.
    Tammy Lee, 36, a stockbroker at Merrill Lynch in Seattle, Washington.
Tammy's experience gives her a realistic view of the world. She watches
out for herself and keeps her goals clear. Her strength is one of her
greatest attributes, and it will help her throughout her career.
    Bill Rancic, 32, founder of www.cigarsaroundtheworld.com, which he
started from his studio apartment in Chicago, Illinois, and turned into a
multimillion-dollar business. Bill is a good guy with a great future and has
already proven his entrepreneurial skills. He's a careful thinker, serious
about his endeavors, and a good bet to achieve the results he seeks.
    Omarosa Manigault-Stallworth, 29, a political consultant from
Washington, D.C., who worked in the Clinton-Gore administration. Like
Madonna, she needs only a first name. Omarosa is the most articulate of
the group. She's got a lot of fight in her and self-confidence that will serve
her well. If she'd been working on Gore's presidential campaign, he would
have won.
    Sam Solovey, 27, cofounder of an Internet media company, from
Chevy Chase, Maryland. He lasted only until the third episode, but even
that seemed like an eternity to some viewers. Sam was the smartest
annoying character on TV since Howard Cosell. He is likely to either take
a company down in flames or create an IBM. I think he's got a lot of talent,
and as long as he learns how to use it correctly he will do great things. I
can't believe he proposed marriage on TV. His future wife looks great, but
he forgot to ask for the prenup, and I hope he won't ever need one.
    Ereka Vitrini, 27, a global marketing manager for Clinique, who
learned her business skills working in her family's pizzeria in New York

City. Ereka has terrific spirit and a good amount of fortitude. She's not
afraid to voice her opinions, and that's crucial.
    Nick Warnock, 27, a salesman for Xerox who launched an Italian ice
business in Bayonne, New Jersey, and now lives in Los Angeles. Nick is a
savvy guy who tries to cover his bases. He is industrious but needs to
focus on exactly what is going on around him. His tenacity will see him
through.


    They were all great, even Sam. What I found interesting was the
shifting dynamic of the group and their interplay, with its changing
patterns and alliances. That's the way business teams function.
    As everyone saw, the women dominated the men at first, and it made
some people wonder whether women are superior at business. I believe
we're all equal, except in one respect: Women still have to try harder, and
they know it. They will do what they have to do to get the job done and
will not necessarily be demure about it.
    A lot of people were surprised when I decided to lecture the women
about the way they were using their sex appeal. They used it successfully
at first, but I knew that would not always be the case. It works, and then it
doesn't, and I didn't want them to fall into a trap.
    All the women on The Apprentice flirted with me--consciously or
unconsciously. That's to be expected. A sexual dynamic is always present
between people, unless you are asexual.
    As a result of The Apprentice, several of my esteemed colleagues at The
Trump Organization have become TV stars. I was joined in the boardroom
every week by George Ross and Carolyn Kepcher. They did for The
Apprentice what they do for me every day--pay attention to the details, see
the big picture, and give me excellent advice. When I told them I wanted
them to appear on the show with me, unscripted and unrehearsed, they
approached it just like any other job assignment, with thorough
professionalism and astute attention, and they came across as authentic
because of that.




       At Planet Hollywood in Times Square with George Ross and Carolyn Kepcher.


    I chose Carolyn, an executive vice president and the director of one of
my largest properties, because she's shown a lot of smarts over the years.
George, an executive vice president and senior counsel, is a shrewd, tough
guy with brains--he doesn't put up with nonsense from anyone.
    My executive assistants Rhona Graff and Robin Himmler are also
featured regularly, and even though they have high-stress jobs, I think
you'll agree they look anything but stressed on TV. My executives Allen
Weisselberg, Charlie Reiss, Norma Foerderer, and Tom Downing also
made appearances, and Bernie Diamond appears four times. Whenever I
make a big hiring decision, these people are involved, so it was only
natural for me to include them in choosing the apprentice.
    The only person I had to coax into appearing was my vice president
and personal assistant, Norma Foerderer. She prefers being "the power
behind the throne" and didn't want to be in the limelight, but I finally
convinced her.
    I've been asked how much the success of The Apprentice will mean to
my business. My pay per episode, while substantial, does not, for me,
mean very much. It is nowhere near what the stars of Friends rake in. The
real value is in the free advertising and publicity The Trump Organization
has been receiving. I can't put a monetary value on that. Before The
Apprentice, the use of my name on a building was worth untold millions of
dollars. That value sure has not gone down. I'm told that The Apprentice is
the highest-rated show featuring a non-acting businessman in the history
of television. When TV viewers think of business in America, a lot of them
are going to be thinking about The Trump Organization.
    We're already at work on the second season, to premiere in the fall of
2004. For those of you interested in applying and winning, here are the
four essential qualities I'm looking for in an apprentice:


    1.  An outstanding personality. Someone who makes everyone feel
        comfortable. No matter what you're doing in business--selling,
        buying, negotiating, analyzing, or managing--this may be the
        most essential trait. You've got to be able to connect with the
        people you encounter, every hour, every day.

    2.  Brains. Not book brains alone, but street smarts as well. That
        combination, properly used, is a winner.

    3.  Creativity. The ability to see beyond the obvious, to think
        unpredictably and imaginatively, to make connections others
        might not envision. This is perhaps the hardest quality to
        develop--you've either got it or you don't. But you can be creative
         in different ways. Jeff Zucker is a creative TV executive. Derek
         Jeter is a creative shortstop. If they switched jobs, they might not
         be as creative in their various fields.

    4.   Loyalty and trust. Absolutely required traits. Unlike creativity and
         brains, any person can possess these qualities, so if you lack them,
         you have no one to blame but yourself.


    Let's suppose, out of the hundreds of thousands of applicants, you're
selected. Let's suppose you actually win. You become famous for fifteen
minutes (or perhaps more) and bag a $250,000-a-year job at The Trump
Organization.
    Then what?
    I titled this book How to Get Rich because whenever I meet people
that's usually the first thing they want to know. From reading these pages,
I hope you've gained a sense of what it takes, how to live your life in the
way most likely to result in a vast fortune. Unless you win the lottery or
have a bonanza at one of my casinos, you're not going to get rich purely
through luck. You'll have to work for it, and I've tried to show you how.
    My ideal goals are success with significance. That's worth more than
the money. Being paid is nice. In most cases, it is absolutely necessary, and
a good scorecard for success, but it certainly isn't the only one. I didn't do
The Apprentice for the money, even though it has been very profitable.
    It feels great to be in a position to make a difference, and that's what I
mean when I say "success with significance."
    I hope you become rich. And I hope you use your talent to make some
kind of positive change in your immediate world.
    Whatever your job is, that's your assignment.
    Begin now.
    You're hired

This book could not have been written without Meredith McIver, a writer
of many talents. She served her apprenticeship with the New York City
Ballet, worked on Wall Street, and for the past two years has been an
executive assistant at The Trump Organization, stationed at a desk outside
my office. As you know, my door is always open, so Meredith has heard
everything, and she's taken good notes. She's done a remarkable job of
helping me put my thoughts and experiences on paper. I am
tremendously grateful to her.
    Very little happens in my office without Norma Foerderer, who
oversees my schedule and has been instrumental in keeping this book
project on track in many ways, especially in the coordination of the
photographs.
    I want to thank my editor at Random House, Jonathan Karp, who
asked me to write this book. I first met Jon in 1997, when he edited The Art
of the Comeback. He spent a lot of time in my office, and one day I noticed
he was staring at the carpet under my desk. Finally, he said, "Donald,
what's the deal with the space heater?"
    I told him that my feet get cold.
    Jon said, "We're in Trump Tower. It's your building. Can't you do
something about that?"
    It's important to have an editor who asks the tough questions.

     I'm also grateful to many others at Random House who worked long
and late hours to produce this book in record time: publisher Gina
Centrello; associate publishers Anthony Ziccardi and Elizabeth McGuire;
executive director of publicity Carol Schneider; director of publicity
Thomas Perry; associate director of publicity Elizabeth Fogarty; editorial
assistants Jonathan Jao (who did an excellent job with the photos) and
Casey Reivich; art director Gene Mydlowski; managing editor Benjamin
Dreyer; production chief Lisa Feuer;design director Carole Lowenstein;
production manager Richard Elman; production editor Janet Wygal; copy
editor Ginny Carroll; advertising director Magee Finn; rights directors
Claire Tisne and Rachel Bernstein; and everyone in the Random House
sales force, which is the best in the business.
     At The Trump Organization, I am surrounded by home-run, grand-
slam people: Matthew Calamari, Allen Weisselberg, George Ross, Bernie
Diamond, Jason Greenblatt, Rhona Graff, Tony Morace, Andy Weiss, Don
Jr., Jeff, Eric, and many more.

Meredith McIver would like to thank Mark Burnett, Richard Casares,
Steve Palitz, the Bosworth Family, George Balanchine, Alain Bernardin,
Christophe D'Astier, Peter Irigoin, and Richard Irigoin. To my family, you
are the best. To everyone at The Trump Organization, it's an honor to
work with you. To my officemates Rhona Graff and Robin Himmler, a
special thanks for your support. To Norma Foerderer and Mr. Trump,
thank you both for making every day an adventure. To Mr. Trump, you
are a writer's delight. I will never be at a loss for ideas. Thank you very
much.
