your re­ac­tion please to these book al­leg­a­tions? Did for­eign en­tit­ies re­ceive any spe­cial treat­ment for mak­ing any kind of dona­tions to the found­a­tion or your hus­band?
Well, we’re back in­to the polit­ic­al sea­son, and there­fore we will be sub­jec­ted to all kinds of dis­trac­tion and at­tacks. And I’m ready for that. I know that that comes un­for­tu­nately with the ter­rit­ory. It is, I think, worth not­ing that the Re­pub­lic­ans seem to be talk­ing only about me. I don’t know what they’d talk about if I wer­en’t in the race. But I am in the race, and hope­fully we’ll get on to the is­sues, and I look for­ward to that.
Re­gard­ing the play for pay al­leg­a­tions in the latest book, emails back in 2012.
You know, those is­sues are, in my view, dis­trac­tions from what this cam­paign should be about, what I’m go­ing to make this cam­paign about, and I’ll let oth­er people de­cide what they want to talk about. I’m go­ing to talk about what’s hap­pen­ing in the lives of the people of New Hamp­shire and across Amer­ica. Thank you, all.
Why do you have an early pref­er­ence for small-group meet­ings?
I wasn’t aware of the depth of feel­ing people had about the sub­stance ab­use is­sues. So here again I heard it in New Hamp­shire. So I want people to know that I’m listen­ing, and I’m ac­cess­ible, and I’m run­ning a cam­paign that is about now, that is about the needs of the people of New Hamp­shire. That’s the kind of cam­paign I want to run. And I’m ex­cited to be back here.
Q Do you have con­cerns about the Trans-Pa­cific Part­ner­ship, a trade agree­ment the Obama ad­min­is­tra­tion is in the pro­cess of ne­go­ti­at­ing?
Any trade deal has to pro­duce jobs and raise wages and in­crease prosper­ity and pro­tect our se­cur­ity. We have to do our part in mak­ing sure we have the cap­ab­il­it­ies and the skills to be com­pet­it­ive. … It’s got to be really a part­ner­ship between our busi­ness, our gov­ern­ment, our work­force, the in­tel­lec­tu­al prop­erty that comes out of our uni­versit­ies, and we have to get back to a much more fo­cused ef­fort in my opin­ion to try to pro­duce those ca­pa­cit­ies here at home so that we can be com­pet­it­ive in a glob­al eco­nomy.
What is your cam­paign fin­ance agenda?
We do have a plan. We have a plan for my plan. … I’m go­ing to be rolling out a lot of my policies. … Stay tuned.
What role do you think Pri­or­it­ies USA Ac­tion will play in the 2016 elec­tion?
I don’t know.
You lost Iowa in 2008. How do you win this time? What’s your strategy?
I’m hav­ing a great time, can’t look for­ward any more than I am.
what do you think the im­port­ance of the Iowa Caucus will be in the passed and in the up­com­ing elec­tion?
I think it’s im­port­ant be­cause it’s the first con­test and I’m look­ing for­ward to get­ting pre­pared for it next Feb­ru­ary.
The Trans-Pacific Partnership. The U.S. and 11 other countries covering 40 percent of the global economy, 800 million consumers. It’s already started a big battle between people who love free trade and people who care more about protectionism. Where do you come down?
Well, I have said from the very beginning that we had to have a trade agreement that would create good American jobs, raise wages and advance our national security. And I still believe that’s the high bar we have to meet. I have been trying to learn as much as I can about the agreement, but I’m worried. I’m worried about currency manipulation not being part of the agreement. We’ve lost American jobs to the manipulation that the countries, in particularly in Asia, have engaged in. I’m worried that the pharmaceutical companies may have gotten more benefits and patients and consumers — fewer. I think that there are still a lot of unanswered questions, but for me, it really comes down to those three points that I made, and the fact that we’ve learned a lot about trade agreements in the past years. Sometimes they look great on paper. I know when President Obama came into office, he inherited a trade agreement with South Korea. I, along with other members of the Cabinet, pushed hard to get a better agreement. We think we made improvements. Now looking back on it, it doesn’t have the results we thought it would have in terms of access to the market, more exports, et cetera. 
Just very quickly, you mentioned the middle class. You’ve said you favor middle-class tax cuts. My question is, would yours be bigger or smaller than what the Republicans have put out there? Donald Trump is out there with a plan. Jeb Bush is out there with a plan. What would yours look like? Are you ready to say?
Well, I want to have families be able to invest in what they tell me they care about: how do they pay for child care? How do they pay for college? How do they pay the daily expenses of health care and the other things that are really straining the family budget. I’ve looked at the plans produced on the other side by Donald Trump, by Jeb Bush and others, they would explode the deficit, and once again, they are so tilted toward the rich, it’s embarrassing. And we know that doesn’t work. So when I roll out my tax plan, it is very much focused and targeted on the middle class.
You’ve commented on what Kevin McCarthy said about the political nature of this committee, but what do you expect from Chairman Trey Gowdy when those hearings get under way on October 22nd?
I don’t know what to expect. I testified, as you know, in both the House and the Senate on Benghazi. I commissioned an independent inquiry that came up with conclusions. There have been seven other committees in the Congress looking into Benghazi; they’ve all concluded the same: that, you know, we have work to do to make sure our diplomats are safe, but there is no hidden, you know, e-mail or hidden story or hidden anything. And the fact is that people are in dangerous positions when they represent the United States. So, I don’t know what to expect. I do know that it’s pretty much pulled the curtain back, that this was set up to be a political partisan attack on me. Of course, you know, that probably is something we could have concluded earlier since there had already been seven investigations. Now, we see the Congress setting up a special committee to look into Planned Parenthood. You know, it’s really sad to me that whether it’s women’s health or in this case the death of four Americans serving our country, that the Republicans in Congress try to partisanize and exploit these events.
Something else on foreign policy — Syria. You came out and have said you would favor the idea of a no-fly — setting up a no-fly zone to protect refugees and others. But in talking to experts, they say in order to do that, you’d have to take out Syria’s air defenses, most of which, or at least much of which are in urban areas. In other words, you would have to go into an area with huge civilian casualties in order to set up this no-fly zone. Is that something you’re prepared to take on?
Well, there are different parts of the country with different levels remaining of air defense. There are now parts of the country that are totally outside the control of the Syrian government. They don’t have, if any are still standing, command and control over air defenses in the north and many other parts of Syria. What I want to do, and I — I saw on CNN that it’s something that John Kerry is now also talking about, is to see if we can’t get a coalition of all the countries that have a stake in this, including the Russians, to agree on three things. One, we have to do as much as possible to end the conflict. We have to stop the refugee flow by helping people have a safe place to stay in, and to get supplies — medical and food and other things. And we have to begin the process of a political transition. So I think that is a discussion worth having. And I — I’m pleased that I heard Secretary Kerry is pursuing that.
Why is it, do you think, that someone who is a self-described Democratic socialist is really attracting this organic interest that your campaign seems to be struggling a little bit with?
Well, first of all, I always thought this would be a competitive race.  So I am happy to have a chance to get out and run my campaign as I see fit and let other candidates do exactly the same. I feel very good about where we are in Iowa.  We are signing up thousands of volunteers, people committed to caucus for us.  We have a committed supporter in every one of the 1,600 precincts.  And one of the things that I learned last time is it's organize, organize, organize.  And you've got to get people committed.  And then they will follow through and then you bring more people. So I feel very good about where my campaign is.  It'll be three months and a few days that we've been at this.  I think I've learned a lot from listening to people in Iowa.  And it's actually affected what I say and what I talk about on the campaign trail. So I couldn't be happier about my campaign.
Senator Sanders  has talked about how, if he's president, he would raise taxes.  In fact, he said to CNN's Jake Tapper, he would raise them substantially higher than they are today, on big corporations, on wealthy Americans. Would you?
I will be laying out my own economic policies.  Again, everybody has to run his or her own campaign.  And I'm going to be telling the American people what propose and how I think it will work and then we'll let voters make up their minds.
Are - is raising taxes on the table?
I'm going to put out my policies and I'll other people speak to their policies because I think we have to both grow the economy faster and fairer so we have to do what will actually work in the short term, the medium term and the long term.  I will be making a speech about my economic proposals on Monday.  And then I look forward to the debate about them.
Do you see any role that you've had in the sentiment that we've seen, where people are questioning whether you're trustworthy?
I can only tell you, Brianna, that this has been a theme that has been used against me and my husband for many, many years.  And at the end of the day, I think voters sort it all out.  I have great confidence.  I trust the American voter.  So I trust the American voter 100 percent because I think the American voter will weight these kinds of accusations. I mean, people write books filled with unsubstantiated attacks against us.  And even admit they have no evidence.  But of course, it's your job to cover it.  So of course that's going to raise questions in people's minds. But during the course of this campaign, just as in my two prior campaigns and in my other years of service, I have a lot of confidence that the American people can sort it all out.
One of the issues that has eroded some trust that we've seen is the issue of your email practices while you were secretary of state.  I think there's a lot of people who don’t understand what your thought process was on that. Can you tell me the story of how you decided to delete 33,000 emails and how that deletion was executed?
Well, let's start from the beginning.  Everything I did was permitted.  There was no law.  There was no regulation.  There was nothing that did not give me the full authority to decide how I was going to communicate.  Previous secretaries of state have said they did the same thing.  And people across the government knew that I used one device - maybe it was because I am not the most technically capable person and wanted to make it as easy as possible.