Thank you so much. Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Obama, distinguished guests - which included everybody. Thank you so much for this wonderful honor to be at this stage again. I was here 16 years ago, and the fact that they invited me back means that I didn't offend too many people, so that was great. [LAUGHTER]

I want to start by reading four texts which will put into I want to start by reading four texts which will put into context what I'm going to say.

Proverbs 11:9 With his mouth the Godless destroys his neighbor, but through knowledge the righteous escapes.

Proverbs 11:12 A man who lacks judgement derides his neighbor, but a man of understanding holds his tongue

Proverbs 11:25 A generous man will prosper. He who refreshes others will himself, be refreshed.

2nd Chronicles 7:14 If my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sins and heal their land.

You know, I have an opportunity to speak in a lot of venues. This is my fourth speech this week. and I have an opportunity to talk to a lot of people. And I've been asking people what concerns you? What are you most concerned about in terms of the spirituality and the direction of our nation and our world? And I've talked to very prominent democrats, very prominent republicans. And I was surprised by the uniformity of their answers. And those have informed my comments this morning. now, it's not my intention to offend anyone. I have discovered, however, in recent years that it's very difficult to speak to a large group of people these days and not offend someone. [laughter]

And people walk away with their feelings on their shoulders waiting for you to say something, ah, did you hear that? The P.C. police are out in force at all times. I remember once I was talking about the difference between a human brain and a dog's grain, and a man -- and a dog's brain, and a man got offended. You can't talk about dogs like that. [laughter] People focus in on that, completely miss the point of what you're saying. [laughter] And we've reached reach the point where people are afraid to actually talk about what they want to say because somebody might be offended. People are afraid to say Merry Christmas at Christmas time. Doesn't matter whether the person you're talking to is Jewish or, you know, whether they're any religion. That's a salutation, a greeting of goodwill. We've got to get over this sensitivity. You know, and it keeps people from saying what they really believe.

You know, I'm reminded of a very successful young businessman, and he loved to buy his mother these exotic gifts for mother's day. And he ran out of ideas, and then he ran across these birds. These birds were cool, you know? They cost $5,000 apiece. They could dance, they could sing, they could talk. He was so excited, he bought two of of them. Sent them to his mother, couldn't wait to call her up on mother's day, mother, mother, what'd you think of those birds? And she said, they was good. [laughter] He said, no, no, no! Mother, you didn't eat those birds? Those birds cost $5,000 apiece! They could dance, they could sing, they could talk! And she said, well, they should have said something. [laughter] And, you know, that's where we end up, too, if we don't speak up for what we believe. [laughter] And, you know, what we need to do -- [applause] what we need to do in this PC world is forget about unanimity of speech and unanimity of thought, and we need to concentrate on being respectful to those people with whom we disagree.

And that's when I believe we begin to make progress. and one last thing about political correctness, which I think is a horrible thing, by the way. I'm very, very come -- compassionate, and I'm not never out to offend anyone. But PC is dangerous. Because, you see, this country one of the founding principles was freedom of thought and freedom of expression. and it muffles people. It puts a muzzle on them. And at the same time, keeps people from discussing important issues while the fabric of this society is being changed. And we cannot fall for that trick. And what we need to do is start talking about things, talking about things that are important.

Things that were important in the development of our nation. one of those things was education. I'm very passionate about education because it's made such a big difference in my life. But here we are at a time in the world, the information age, the age of technology, and yet 30% of people who enter high school in this country do not graduate. 44% of people who start a four-year college program do not finish it in four years. What is that about? Think back to a darker time in this our history. Two hundred years ago when slavery was going on it was illegal to educate a slave, particularly to teach them to read. Why do you think that was? Because when you educate a man, you liberate a man. And there I was as a youngster placing myself in the same situation that a horrible institution did because I wasn't taking advantage of the education. I was a horrible student. Most of my classmates thought I was the stupidest person in the world. They called me dummy. I was the butt of all the jokes. Now, admittedly, it was a bad environment. single-parent home, you know, my mother and father had gotten divorced early on.

My mother got married when she was 13. She was one of 24 children. Had a horrible life. Discovered that her husband was a bigamist, had another family. And she only had a third grade education. She had to take care of us. Dire poverty. I had a horrible temper, poor self-esteem. All the things that you think would preclude success. But I had something very important, I had a mother who believed in me, and I had a mother who would never allow herself to be a victim no matter what happened. Never made excuses, and she never accepted an excuse from us. And if we ever came up with an excuse, she always said do you have a brain? And if the answer was, yes, then she said then you could have thought your way out of it. It doesn't matter what John or Susan or Mary or anybody else did or said. And it was the most important thing she did for my brother and myself. Because if you don't accept excuse, pretty soon people stop giving them, and they start looking for solutions. And that is a critical issue when it comes to success.

Well, you know, we did live in dire poverty, and one of the things that I hated was poverty. you know, some people hate spiders, some people hate snakes, I hated poverty. I couldn't stand it. [laughter] But, you know, my mother couldn't stand the fact that we were doing poorly in school, and she prayed and asked god to give her wisdom, what could she do to to to make her sons understand the importance of wisdom? God gave her wisdom. At least in her opinion. It was to turn off the tv, let us watch only two or three programs during the week, and read two books apiece and submit to her written book reports which she couldn't read, but we didn't know that. [laughter] She put check marks and highlights and stuff -- [laughter] But, you know, I just hated this. And my friends were out having a good time. her friends would criticize her. they would say you can't make boys stay in the house reading books, they'll grow up and hate you. and i would overhear them and say, you know, mother, they're right. but she didn't care.

You know. [laughter] after a while, I actually began to enjoy reading those books because we were very poor, but between the covers of those books I could go anywhere, I could be anybody, i could do anything. I began to read about people of great accomplishment, and as I read those stories, I began to see a connecting thread. I began to see that the person who has the most to do with you and what happens to you in life is you. You make decisions. You decide how much energy you want to put behind that decision. And I came to understand that I had control of my own destiny. And at that point I didn't hate poverty anymore, because I knew it was only temporary. I knew I could change that. it was incredibly liberating for me, made all the difference.

To continue on that theme of education, in 1831 Alexis de Toqueville came to study America. The Europeans were fascinated. How could a fledgling Nation, barely 50 years old already be competing with them on virtually every level. This was impossible. De Toqueville was going to sort it out and he looked at our government and he was duly impressed by the three branches of government - four now because now we have special interest groups, but it was only three back in those days. He said, WOW, this is really something, but then he said, but let me look at their educational system and he was blown away. See, anybody who had finished the second grade was completely literate. He could find a mountain man on the outskirts of society who could read the newspaper and have a political discussion, could tell him how the government worked.

If you really want to be impressed, take a look at the chapter on education in my latest book, America the Beautiful, which I wrote with my wife - it came out last year, and in that education chapter you will see questions extracted from a sixth grade exit exam from the 1800′s - a test you had to pass to get your sixth grade certificate. I doubt most college graduates today could pass that test. We have dumbed things down to that level and the reason that is so dangerous is because the people who founded this Nation said that our system of government was designed for a well-informed and educated populace, and when they become less informed, they become vulnerable. Think about that. That is why education is so vitally important.

Now some people say, ahhh, you're over blowing it, things aren't that bad, and you're a doctor, a neurosurgeon. Why are you concerned about these things? Got news for you. FIVE doctors signed the Declaration of Independence. Doctors were involved in the framing of the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, in a whole bunch of things. It's only been since recent decades that we've extracted ourselves, which I think is a big mistake.

We need doctors, we needs scientists, engineers. We need all those people involved in government, not just lawyers...I don't have anything against lawyers, but you know, here's the thing about lawyers...I'm sorry, but I got to be truthful...got to be truthful - what do lawyers learn in law school? To win, by hook or by crook. You gotta win, so you got all these Democrat lawyers, and you got all these Republican lawyers and their sides want to win. We need to get rid of that. What we need to start thinking about is, how do we solve problems?

Now, before I get shot, let me finish. I don't like to bring up problems without coming up with solutions. My wife and I started the Carson Scholars Fund 16 years ago after we heard about an international survey looking at the ability of eight graders in 22 countries to solve math and science problems, and we came out No. 21 out of 22. We only barely beat out Number 22 - very concerning.

We went to these schools and we'd see all these trophies: State Basketball, State Wrestling, this, that and the other. The Quarterback was the Big Man on Campus. What about the intellectual Superstar? What did they get? A National Honor Society pin? A pat on the head, there, there little Nerd? Nobody cared about them. And is it any wonder that sometimes the smart kids try to hide? They don't want anybody to know they are smart? This is not helping us or our Nation, so we started giving out scholarships from all backgrounds for superior academic performance and demonstration of humanitarian qualities. Unless you cared about other people, it didn't matter how smart you were. We've got plenty of people like that. We don't need smart people who don't care about other people.

We would give them money. The money would go into a Trust. They would get interest on it. When they would go to college they would get the money, but also the school gets a trophy, every bit as impressive as a sports trophy - right out there with the others. They get a medal. They get to go t a banquet. We try to put them on a pedestal as impressive as we do the All-State athletes. I have nothing against athletics or entertainment. I'm from Baltimore. The Ravens won. This is great - okay. But, but - what will maintain our position in the world? The ability to shoot a 25 foot jump shot or the ability to solve a quadratic equation? We need to put the things into proper perspective.

Many teachers have told us that when we put a Carson Scholar in their classroom, the GPA of the whole classroom goes up over the next year. It's been very gratifying. We started 16 years ago with 25 scholarships in Maryland, now we've given out more than 5,000 and we are in all 50 states, but we've also put in Reading Rooms. These are fascinating places that no little kid could possibly pass up. And uh, they get points for the amount of time they spend reading, and the number of books they read. They can trade the points for prizes. In the beginning they do it for the prizes, but it doesn't take long before their academic performance begins to improve.

And we particularly target Title One schools where the kids come from homes with no books and they go to schools with no libraries. Those are the ones who drop out. We need to truncate that process early on because we can't afford to waste any of those young people. You know, for every one of those people we keep from going down that path - that path of self-destruction and mediocrity, that's one less person you have to protect yourself and your family from. One less person you have to pay for in the penal or welfare system. One more taxpaying productive member of society who may invent a new energy source or come up with a cure for cancer. They are all important to us and we need every single one of them it makes a difference. And when you go home tonight read about it, Carson Scholars, carsonscholars.org.

Why is it so important that we educate our people? Because we don't want to go down the pathway as so many pinnacle nations that have preceded us. I think particularly about ancient Rome. Very powerful. Nobody could even challenge them militarily, but what happened to them? They destroyed themselves from within. Moral decay, fiscal irresponsibility. They destroyed themselves. If you don't think that can happen to America, you get out your books and you start reading, but you know, we can fix it.

Why can we fix it because we're smart. We have some of the most intellectually gifted people leading our Nation. All we need to do is remember what our real responsibilities are so that we can solve the problems. I think about these problems all the time, and my role, you know, model was Jesus. He used parables to help people understand things. And one of our big problems right now, and like I said, I'm not politically correct, so I'm sorry, but you know - our deficit is a big problem. Think about it. And our National Debt - $16.5 Trillion dollars - you think that's not a lot of money? I'll tell you what! Count one number per second, which you can't even do because once you get to a thousand it will take you longer than a second, but...one number per second. You know how long it would take you to count to 16 Trillion? 507,000 years - more than a half a million years to get there. We have to deal with this.

Here's a parable: A family falls on hard times. Dad loses his job or is demoted to part time work. He has 5 children. He comes to the 5 children, he says we're going to have to reduce your allowance. Well, they're not happy about it but - he says, except for John and Susan. They're, they're special. They get to keep their allowance. In fact, we'll give them more. How do you think that's going to go down? Not too well. Same thing happens. Enough said.

What about our taxation system? So complex there is no one who can possibly comply with every jot and tittle of our tax system. If I wanted to get you, I could get you on a tax issue. That doesn't make any sense. What we need to do is come up with something that is simple.

When I pick up my Bible, you know what I see? I see the fairest individual in the Universe, God, and he's given us a system. It's called tithe. Now we don't necessarily have to do it 10% but it's principle. He didn't say, if your crops fail, don't give me any tithes. He didn't say, if you have a bumper crop, give me triple tithes. So there must be something inherently fair about proportionality. You make $10 Billion dollars you put in a Billion. You make $10 you put in $1 - of course, you gotta get rid of the loopholes, but now now some people say, that's not fair because it doesn't hurt the guy who made $10 Billion dollars as much as the guy who made $10. Where does it say you have to hurt the guy. He's just put in a billion in the pot. We don't need to hurt him.

It's that kind of thinking - it's that kind of thinking that has resulted in 602 banks in the Cayman Islands. That money needs to be back here, building our infrastructure and creating jobs - and we're smart enough - we're smart enough to figure out how to do that.

We've already started down the path to solving one of the other big problems, health care. We need to have good health care for everybody. It's the most important thing that a person can have. Money means nothing, titles mean nothing when you don't have your health, but we've got to figure out efficient ways to do it. We spend a lot of money on health care, twice as much per capita as anybody in else in the world, and yet not very efficient. What can we do?

Here's my solution. When a person is born, give him a birth certificate, an electronic medical record and a health savings account [HSA], to which money can be contributed, pre-tax from the time you are born, to the time you die. When you die, you can pass it on to your family members so that when you're 85 years old and you've got 6 diseases, you're not trying to spend up everything. You're happy to pass it on and nobody is talking about death panels. That's number one. Also -

For the people who are indigent, who don't have any money, we can make contributions to their HSA each month because we already have this huge pot of money instead of sending it to bureaucracy - let's put it into HSAs. Now they have some control over their own health care and what do you think they're going to do? They're going to learn very quickly how to be responsible. When Mr. Jones gets that diabetic foot ulcer, he's not going to the Emergency Room and blowing a big chunk of it. He's going to go to the Clinic. He learns that very quickly - gets the same treatment. In the Emergency Room they send him out. In the Clinic they say, now let's get your diabetes under control so that you're not back here in three weeks with another problem. That's how we begin to solve these kinds of problems. It's much more complex than that, and I don't have time to go into it all, but we can do all these things because we are smart people.

And let me begin to close here - another parable: Sea Captain, and he's out on the sea near the area where the Titanic went down. And they look ahead and there's a bright light right there - another ship he figures. He tells his signaler to signal that ship: deviate 10 degrees to the South. Back comes the message, no you deviate 10 degrees to the North. Well, he's a little bit incensed you know. He says, send a message, this is Captain Johnson, deviate 10 degrees to the South. Back comes the message, this is Ensign 4th Class Reilly. Deviate 10 degrees to the North. Now Captain Johnson is really upset. He says send him a message, this is a Naval Destroyer. Back comes the message, this is a Lighthouse. Enough said.

Now, what about the symbol of our Nation? The Eagle. The Bald Eagle. It's an interesting story how we chose that but a lot of people think we call it the bald eagle because it looks like it has a bald head. That's not the reason It comes from the Old English word Piebald, which means crowned with white. And we just shortened it to bald. Now, use that the next time you see somebody who thinks they know everything. You'll get 'em on that one.

But, why is that eagle able to fly, high, forward? Because it has two wings: a left wing and a right wing. Enough said.

And I wanna close with this story: two hundred years ago this Nation was involved in a war, the war of 1812. The British, who are now our good friends thought that we were young whippersnappers. It was time for us to become a colony again. They were winning that war and marching up the Eastern Seaboard, destroying city after city, destroying Washington D.C., burned down the White House. Next stop Baltimore. As they came into the Chesapeake Bay, there were armadas of war ships as far as the eye could see. It was looking grim. Fort. McHenry standing right there. General Armisted, who was in charge of Fort. McHenry, had a large American flag commissioned to fly in front of the Fort. The Admiral in charge of the British Fleet was offended, said take that flag down. You have until dusk to take that Flag down. If you don't take it down, we will reduce you to ashes.

There was a young amateur poet on board by the name of Francis Scott Key, sent by President Madison to try to obtain the release of an American physician who was being held captive. He overheard the British plans. They were not going to let him off the ship. He mourned. As dusk approached he mourned for his fledgling young Nation, and as the sun fell, the bombardment started. Bombs bursting in air. Missiles, so much debris He strained, trying to see, was the flag still there? Couldn't see a thing. All night long it continued. At the crack of dawn he ran out to the banister He looked straining his eyes all he could only see dust and debris.

Then there was a clearing and he beheld the most beautiful sight he had ever seen - the torn and tattered Stars and Stripes still waving. And many historians say that was the turning point in the war of 1812. We went on to win that war and to retain our freedom and if you had gone onto the grounds of Fort. McHenry that day, you would have seen at the base of that flag, the bodies of soldiers who took turns. Propping up that flag, they would not let that flag go down because they believed in what that flag symbolized. And what did it symbolize? One Nation, under God, [applause] indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. God Bless.
Thank you. Alright.  We have limited time. Thank you. Well thank you so much for that warm welcome. This of course is my wonderful wife Candy, who is also a Detroiter. Even though we are both from Detroit, we had to go to New Haven to meet each other. But, but Candy has been by my side now for 40 years.  And is my best friend, and we do everything together. She even learned how to play pool because she knew I was a good pool player. And, you know she actually wins sometimes. But, most of the times, most of the times I beat her.

But I should be careful because there are some media in here and their headline will be Carson admits he beats his wife, you know. But, if you guys wouldn't mind sitting down, so that I can introduce our sons.

My oldest son, Murray and his wife Lerone are right here. Stand up, please. Murray is an engineer and Lerone is an analyst for a polling company. And my middle son B.J. and his wife Merlin are right here, Ben, Jr.. And, B.J. is an entrepreneur and Merlin owns a company that does placements and they do a lot of things, they own a lot of stuff. Very cool. And then my youngest son, Royce is right here. His wife is at home with the baby. Royce is a CPA, and they all three got married in 2011. That’s right, yeah.   

Now, I have introduced my family. You say, well who are you? I’ll tell you. I’m Ben Carson, and I’m a candidate for President of the United States. Thank you. Thank you.

Now, America remains a place of dreams and a lot of people are down on our nation. And they want to point out all of the bad things that have happened here. But, have you ever noticed that there's a lot of people trying to get in here and not a lot of people trying to escape? You know, it says something, and it was a place of dreams for my mother.

My mother came from a very large rural family in Tennessee and was shuffled from home to home. She always had a desire for education. But, she was never able to get beyond the third grade. And she married at age 13 with the hope of escaping a desperate situation. She and my father moved here to Detroit, and he worked in a factory. In fact, I remember one Christmas being right here in this auditorium, sitting right over there with, for GM employees they had a Christmas program for the kids.

But, some years later, my mother discovered that he was a bigamist and had another family. And of course, that occasioned the divorce and you know she only had a third grade education. And consequently, we were thrown into a situation of dire poverty. And she still maintained that dream of education, but now it was for us, more so than for herself. We moved in with her older sister and brother-in-law in Boston. Typical tenement. Large, multifamily dwelling. Boarded up windows and doors, sirens, gangs, murders. Both of our older cousins, who we adored, were killed.

I remember when our favorite drug dealer was killed.  Vinnie Bostonbarrows [phon.] He drove a blue Cadillac. You know, they used to bring us candy, so we liked to see the drug dealers. But, the rats and the roaches. You know, in the more upscale areas, they called them water bugs, but we knew what they were.   
But my mother was out working extraordinarily hard. Two, sometimes three, jobs at a time, as a domestic. Trying to stay off of welfare. And the reason for that was she noticed that most of the people she saw go on welfare never came off of it. And she didn’t want to be dependent. She wanted us also to be independent, and she decided she would work as long and as hard as necessary, leaving at 5:00 in the morning, getting back after midnight, day after day after day, doing what other people didn't want to do to try and maintain her independence. 
And she was very thrifty. I mean she would drive a car until it wouldn't make a sound.  And then she would go and collect all of her dimes and nickels and quarters and buy a new car. And people would say, how does that woman afford a new car? But, she knew how to manage money. And I am fond of saying if my mother were Secretary of the Treasury, we would not be in a deficit situation.  
And you know, there are many people who are critical of me because they say Carson wants to get rid of all the safety nets and welfare programs, even though he must've benefited from them. This is a blatant lie. I have no desire to get rid of safety nets for people who need them. I have a strong desire to get rid of programs that create dependency in able-bodied people. And we’re not doing people a favor when we pat them on the head and say, there, there, you poor little thing, we’re going to take care of all you needs; you don't have to worry about anything.

You know who else says stuff like that? Socialists. And their programs always end up looking the same. They want to take care of people from cradle to grave. But, they want to be involved in every aspect of their lives. And they want most of their earnings. But, they say it'll be a utopia and nobody will have to worry. The problem is all of those societies end up looking the same, with a small group of elites at the top controlling everything, a rapidly diminishing middle class, and a vastly expanded dependent class.

That was not the intention for this country. This country was envisioned by individuals who wanted everything to be surrounding the people. Of, for, and by the people. Not, of, for, and by the government. And the government was to respond to the will of the people, not the people to the will of the government. We’ve allowed the whole thing to be turned upside down. And I’m not an antigovernment person by any stretch of the imagination. I think the government, as described in our Constitution, is wonderful. But, now we’ve gone far beyond what our Constitution describes, and we’ve begun to just allow it to expand based on what the political class wants, because they like to increase their power and their dominion over the people, and I think it’s time for the people to rise up and take the government back.   

Now, the political class won't like me saying stuff like that.    

I’ll tell you a secret. The political class comes from both parties and it comes from all over the place, okay. And It includes, unfortunately, even the media now. You know, the media, the press, is the only business in America that is protected by our Constitution.

You have to ask yourself a question. Why were they the only ones protected? It was because our founders envisioned a press that was on the side of the people, not a press that was on the side of the Democrats or the Republicans or the Federalists or the Anti-Federalists. And this is a direct appeal to media. You guys have an almost sacred position in a true democracy. Please don't abuse it.   

You know, my mother’s dream was for us to move back to Detroit and we eventually were able to do that, but I was a terrible student and my brother was a terrible student, and she didn't know what to do. 
So she prayed. She asked God for wisdom. And you know what? You don't have to have a Ph.D. to talk to God. You just have to have faith. And God gave her the wisdom. At least in her opinion. My brother and I didn’t think it was that wise. Turning off the TV and making us read books and submit to her written book reports which she couldn’t read. But you know it didn’t matter, because, because it worked. That was the key. As I started reading those books, which I really didn’t want to and I started reading about people of accomplishment, I began to recognize that the person who has the most to do with what happens in your life is you. It’s not somebody else.

And you don’t have to be dependent on the good graces of somebody else. You can do it on your own if you have a normal brain and you’re willing to work and you’re willing to have that can-do attitude. You've got to remember it was the can-do attitude that allowed this nation to rise so quickly. Because we had people who didn’t stop when there was an obstacle. That’s how those early settlers were able to move from one sea to the other sea across a rugged and hostile terrain. They knew how to do things. And there were many communities that were separated from other communities by hundreds of miles, but they thrived. Why did they thrive? Because people were willing to work together, to work with each other.

If a farmer got injured, everybody else harvested his crops. If somebody got killed, everybody else pitched in to take care of their families. That’s who we are. We, Americans, we take care of each other. That’s why we're called the United States of America. And what we have done is we’ve allowed the purveyors of division to become rampant in our society and to create friction and fear in our society.

People are afraid to stand up for what they believe in because they don’t want to be called a name. They don’t want an IRS audit. They don’t want their jobs messed with or their families messed with.

But isn't it time for us to think about the people who came before us? And what they were willing to do, so that we could be free. Nathan Hale, a teenage rebel, caught by the British, ready to be executed - he said my only regret is that I have but one life to give for my country.

A couple of nights ago, I was in Mobile, Alabama, and there were several World War II veterans there in uniform. And I took pictures with all of them. And they were thanking me for being courageous enough to do what I’m doing now. But I said, no, it’s you who we must thank.    
We think about all of those brave men and women who sacrificed life and limb over the years so that we could be free. And we dare not soil their efforts by being timid now and not standing up for what we believe. 
You have to recognize that one of the rules oin Saul Alinsky’s Rules for Radicals, is you make the majority believe that what they believe is no longer relevant and no intelligent person thinks that way and the way you believe is the only way intelligent people believe. And that way they'll keep silent. Because I’ll tell you something. They don't care if you don't believe what they believe, as long as you keep your mouth shut. And that’s what we have to start doing. We have to start opening our mouths for the values and principles of America.    

And, I got to tell you something. I’m not politically correct, and I’m probably never going to be politically correct because I’m not a politician. I don't want to be a politician, because, politicians do what is politically expedient, and I want to do what is right. We have to think about that once again in our country.

You know, this past couple of weeks, there’s been a great deal of turmoil in Baltimore - where I spent 36 years of my life. And we see the turmoil in our cities all over our nation. We need to start thinking about how do we get to the bottom of this issue? You see, I believe that the real issue here is that people are losing hope and they don't feel that life is going to be good for them no matter what happens.

So when an opportunity comes to loot, to riot, to get mine, they take it - not believing that there is a much better way to get the things that they desire. Now, interestingly enough, many of these people buy hook, line, and sinker, the idea that our economy is getting much better and that you know the unemployment rate is down to 5.5%. You know what? If the unemployment rate was down to 5.5%, our economy would be humming, okay. But obviously, it’s not. And it’s one of the reasons that our founders said that our freedom and our way of life is dependent upon a well-informed and educated populace.

Because, what you have to know is that you can make the unemployment rate anything you want it to be based on what numbers you include and what numbers you exclude. So you have to look at the labor force participation rate, which is the number of people eligible to work who are actually working. That number has been steadily going down since 2009 and is now at a 37-year low. Unless you understand those kinds of things, it’s eminently possible for slick politicians and biased media to convince you that everything is wonderful when your eyes tell you something different.

And I’m saying to people around this nation right now, stop being loyal to a party or to a man and use your brain to think for yourself. That is really the key to us as a nation becoming successful again. Not allowing ourselves to be manipulated by people who think that they are the kingmakers, who think that they are the rulers of thought. They are not the rulers of thought. We, the people are the rulers of thought in this nation. We get to determine what kind of nation we have; other people cannot dictate that for us. We never allow anybody to take that right away from us.

And do that when we submit to silliness. You know for instance the majority of Americans were opposed to the so-called "Affordable Care Act," and they just rammed it down our throats and say that this is the way it’s going to be and if you don't like it, too bad. That was never supposed to be the way that this country was designed. And if we accept it, it will continue that way and it will get worse. 
And we have to get the right people in place. We need, not only to take the executive branch in 2016, and when I say we, I’m not talking Republicans - I’m talking about anybody who has common sense, you know. We have to have another wave election and bring in people with common sense, who actually love our nation and are willing to work for our nation and are more concerned about the next generation than the next election. That’s what’s going to help us.  

We also are going to have to concentrate on fixing the broken economy. Eightteen-plus trillion dollars in national debt. And we have representatives who applaud themselves if the deficit doesn't go up as much this quarter as it did last quarter. You know they are completely out to lunch.  We have got to drive that thing back down. It’s crazy. But it’s our responsibility.

You need to know who your representatives are. And you need to know how they voted, not how they said they voted. And if they voted to keep raising that debt ceiling, to keep compromising the future of our children and our grandchildren, you need to throw them out of office.  $18 trillion dollars. Think about what that means. If you tried to pay that back in a rate of $10 million dollars a day, it would take you over five thousand years. And we’re putting that on the backs of people coming behind us. This will be the first year that the national debt exceeds the GDP. Economists will tell you that when the debt to GDP ratio reaches 90%, at that point economic slowdown is inevitable.

And you know we’ve been doing this for a while now. From 1850 to 2000, our economy grew at a rate of 3.3% at least, even during wars. From 2001 until 2014, it grew at a rate of 1.8%. That seems to be the new norm. And you probably saw the headlines recently in the last quarter. it grew at like 0.2%. This is not good.  I don't care how anybody tries to spin it. And this is what happens when you have a GDP to debt ratio of 103, which is what we have now. This is what we have got to fix; we’ve got to fix that immediately because we cannot continue along that pathway. It will have dire consequences in the long run. And I will be giving an in-depth economic speech in weeks and months to come with a lot of details about things that have to be done. But, we need to fix it; we can’t just talk about it. And how do we fix it? Well, recognize that we have the most dynamic economic engine the world has ever known right here in America, and we need to use it again.

We can’t work it when we wrap it in chains and fetters of regulations and new regulations that come out all the time. It doesn’t work, it doesn't work when you have high taxation rates, which are absurd. We have the highest corporate tax rates in the world. And yet we sit there or at least some of our officials and they wonder why people do work overseas. Well they obviously don't understand business. People don’t go into business to support the government; they go into business to make money.   So we have to obviously - we obviously have to create an environment that is conducive to them making money. And you know that means lowering that corporate tax rate, making it competitive and if we were really smart, we would do another big stimulus.

You’re saying what? What did he just say? Well, remember that big billion dollar stimulus that we were supposed to have at the beginning of the Obama administration? Whatever happened to that?  But, but I know where we could get a really big stimulus. There’s $2 trillion dollars of offshore money because they won’t bring it back because it will be taxed at 35%. What if we give them a tax holiday and let them bring it back, repatriate that money? It won't cost us a dime.   

That’s the kind of thing we have to start thinking about. Think about, you know if you go to the financial advisor and you know you’re in trouble, they’ll tell you, they’ll ask you four questions. What do you own and what do you owe? 
Well, we owe a lot. It’s not just the $18 trillion; it's the  $211 trillion in unfunded mandates as well. 
But, what do we own? We own a lot, also. I mean, just in terms of land and the mineral rights for it, are probably at least $50 trillion. We own dams. We own levees. We own railroads. The government owns 900,000 buildings, 77,000 of which are being not utilized or underutilized. Think about that. And at the same time, the government is leasing over 500 million square feet from the private sector, using your taxpayer money. It is totally horrendous when you look under the hood, you just want to shut it back down. I mean it is that bad. 

But, I want to tell you what we’re going to do if God ordains that we end up in the White House. I'm going tell you what we are going to do. We are going to change the government into something that looks more like a well-run business than a behemoth of inefficiency.  

And when I say we, I am talking about our team. When I started this endeavor, I am familiar with a man who has started over 30 companies, is extraordinarily successful.  And I asked him to put together the rest of the team in order to be able to do this. His name is Terry Giles. Terry, where are you? Right there.

Now that we are transitioning from, you know, an exploratory committee, I’ve asked Terry if he would take the lead in helping to select the people who will be able, who have had enormous experience with business and with making things work, so that we can transition our government from this inefficient thing that we have into something that really works and something that works the way it's supposed to, according to our Constitution. 

We also have a great team. We have our - let's see, who do we have? We have our chairman, which is Barry Bennett, who never wears a tie but you'll get used to seeing him, and he does a terrific job.   

And, we have our director of communications, Doug Watts, who does wear a tie. And we have our treasurer and finance director, Logan Delaney. And we have our national spokesperson, Deana Bass. 

And we're going to be doing different things than you’ve seen before because it's not political as I've said before. And there are people who say, but you can’t do this, you don't have any experience. Let me tell you something. I don't have a lot of experience busting budgets and doing the kinds of things that I’ve gotten us into all the trouble that we’re in now, but I do have a lot of experience in solving problems, complex surgical problems that have never been done by anybody before. I do have experience, I do have corporate board experience with 18 years with Kellogg, and 16 years with Costco, as well as a biotech company.

Candy and I do have experience starting a national nonprofit scholars fund. Nine out of 10 of those fail. Ours is thriving in all 50 states and has won several national awards.   

So, the point being that you can gain experience in other ways. It doesn’t have to be just in politics. I can name a lot of people in politics who’ve been there all their lives and you probably wouldn’t want them to polish your shoe. So you know we need to be smart enough to think for ourselves, to listen for ourselves, and in terms of a pedigree that we need-  And you know something, I have to tell you, everybody’s been telling me, are you ready for this. They're going to come after you with everything under the sun. They’re going to look through every record you have; they’re going to try to say you are a horrible doctor, you know everything that you can possibly imagine.  I know that.  That’s the way they are. I expect that. It’s ok.

Don't worry, just listen to what’s being said. I'm not even asking everybody to vote for me. I'm just asking people to listen to what I’m saying and listen to what politicians are saying and make an intelligent decision based on your intellect.

Because the real pedigree that we need to help to heal this country, to revive this country. Someone who believes in our Constitution and is willing to put it on the top shelf. Someone who believes in their fellow man and loves this nation and is compassionate. Somebody who believes in what we have learned since we were in kindergarten.

And that is, that we are one nation, under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. God Bless you and God Bless the United States of America.
Thank you so much.  Well, Candy and I are absolutely delighted to be here -- Candy's out there somewhere.

You know I always feel so welcome when I come to Iowa, 'cause there are so many people here who actually have common sense, and that is not something that is ubiquitous throughout our land.
But you know there's a lot of things that I could talk about in my 20 minutes.  Obviously I'm not going to cover all of them, and somebody's gonna say but you didn't cover--  Look 20 minutes is a finite period time, but I do want to talk about education, because education is so incredibly important, and it made the difference in my life. 
It is the great divide in our country.  Anybody who gets a good education can write their own ticket.  It doesn't matter what their ethnicity is or what their background is and we have to start emphasizing that concept again, that can-do attitude that really helped America to propel itself to the pinnacle so fast.

You know I was a terrible student.  I was one of those people known as the safety net.  No one ever had to worry about getting the lowest mark on a test as long as I was there, you know.  I took care of that, you know, and I tried to act like it didn't bother me when they all laughed and called me dummy, but it did.  Not enough to make study, but it did bother me.  I was still into going home and playing basketball, baseball, football, anything.

But you know my mother, who is really the hero in my life, she was one of two dozen children, got married at age 13, and she and my father moved from rural Tennessee to Detroit.  He was a factory worker.  Some years later she discovered he was a bigamist.  She only had third-grade education herself.  The responsibility of trying to raise two young sons by themselves.

But I'll tell you, interesting thing about my mother.  She never became a victim; she never felt sorry for herself, and that's a good thing.
The problem is she never felt sorry for us either, so--.  There was never any excuse that we could give it was good enough.  She would always say, do you have a brain?  And if the answer is yes then you could have thought your way out of it.  And you know what, I ask that same question of us today in America.  Do we have a brain?  Do we have the ability to think logically to solve the multiple problems that we have?

You know my mother prayed and asked God to give her wisdom.  What could she do?  And you know that's the wonderful thing about God; you don't have to have a Ph.D. to talk to him; you just have to have faith.  And you know what?  He gave it to her.  He gave here the wisdom, at least in her opinion; my brother and I didn't think it was wise at all, turning off the TV and making us read books.  I mean what kind of wisdom is that.  As far as we were concerned it was child abuse, but--
And then we have to submit to her written book reports, two apiece each week, which she could read but we didn't know that.  She'd put little check marks, highlights, underlines, and I was not a happy camper, I've got to tell you.  But you know you had to do it; back in those days had to do what your parents told you.  There was no social psychologist saying let the kid express themselves, you know, and--

I mean don't you find it interesting today how government tries to insert itself into everything

They want to tell you how to take care of your children, what you should feed them, how you should discipline them; everything about them.  You know what?  I would be happy to accept the advice of the government if they were doing everything perfectly, but it seems they can't even run their own house.  How are they going run your house?  You know, this is the problem.

Well at any rate there I was reading those books, but interestingly as I started reading about people of great accomplishment I began to notice something they all seem to have in common, that vision, and that willingness to work hard.  And I began to understand that the person who has the most to do with what happens to you in life is you.  It's not somebody else.  It's not the environment.

And at that point, at that point I stopped listening to the naysayers and people who were saying the system is stacked against you, and these people are against you. I didn't have time for them.  I was going use that time instead to look at all the incredible opportunities that existed for a young man in inner-city Detroit.  And there were a lot of things, but you had to go out and do them; they didn't just fall into your lap.  
And it made a big difference, and I started reading and within the space of a year and a half, I want from the bottom of the class to the top of the class much to the consternation of all those people who used to laugh and call me dummy.  Who were now coming to me and saying Benny, Benny, Benny, how do you work this problem?  And I would say, sit at my feet youngster while I instruct you.  I was perhaps a little obnoxious, but it sure felt good to say that to those turkeys.  
But you know you think about human brain and what it is capable of, and we need to start putting more emphasis on that once again.  We need to be looking at ways that we educate our populace.  We look at all the failed schools in some of our inner-cities, and yet in the same inner-cities you see private schools and charter schools and home schools where people are doing great and high graduation rates and college matriculation rates.

So why in the world aren't we trying to get everybody involved in the things that work and get rid of the things that don't work?
Because we have special interest groups, and that is the problem, a big problem with our nation today: special interest groups.  And there should only be one special interest group and that is that people in the United States of America, and once we understand that, once we understand that, we can do so much better.

You know it was interesting that when Alexis de Tocqueville came to America to study our nation because Europeans were so fascinated as to why we were doing so well, he had this big two-volume analysis.  At the end he concluded that America is great because America is good, and if America ever ceases to be good, she will cease to be great.  
And he was right on target, because as we begin to throw away all of our values, and all of our principles and we forget who we are, we will go from being great to being nothing, and we have to fight that.
Now, one of the other issues I want to touch on, immigration.  
You know we have laws in place.  Common sense works great.  We already have laws that demonstrate how a person becomes an American citizen.  We don't have to relitigate that.  If we do we relitigate it, it needs to be done by the proper branch of government, which is Congress.  It is not by the president; it is not by the Supreme Court.

Do we have an illegal immigration problem?  Can we fix it?
Of course we can.  First of all, you have to realize that that there wouldn't be people coming here if there wasn't a magnet drawing them in here.  You have to reverse the polarity of the magnet.  You have to get rid of all the things that are drawing them in here. including employment.  If you employ a person who is illegal, instead getting a pass from the government you should get a criminal activity on your record because it's a crime.  
And you have to seal the border.  Do we have the ability to seal a border?  Of course we do; we just don't have will to seal the border. And I think whoever wins in 2016--I'm pretty sure it's going be a Republican--I think they should make it their goal to seal that border within a year [inaud.].
And you know these are common sense kinds of things.  Now where's the compassion you say?  There are millions of people here illegally who have to hide in the shadows.  I don't think they should have to hide in the shadows.  We look to the north of us and we see Canada.  They have a very well formulated guest worker program.  People get registered appropriately, they come, they work, they pay taxes, they go back home.  There's a place nobody has to hide in the shadows.  I think we could do something like that, but it has to have some stipulations.

We shouldn't offer jobs unless Americans won't take them, number one.  And number two, in order to get a guest worker permit you have to apply for it from outside of America.  You can't be here, okay, because you shouldn't get an advantage for breaking the law.  So you leave.  It still allows people to--they can easily go and do that, and they probably have an advantage because they know people who want to employ them--they may have established a good work record--and that person can offer them a job and they can come back in and they can take it and they can pay taxes like everybody else in this country pays taxes.  And until we can learn how to think that way we're not going win this argument, but when we do it by the law we integrate compassion, but we do, we use our common sense, that's what will make America work once again.

Now what about the waste and the fraud.  There's a lot waste and fraud in our country right now.  I'll give you an example.  Medicaid.  We spend 400 billion dollars a year on Medicaid.  About a quarter of Americans benefit from Medicaid.  Now what does that come out--a quarter of a million Americans, about 80 million Americans.  Do the math.  It comes out to about five thousand dollars per Medicaid recipient.  
Now you've heard about concierge practices, the boutique practices for people who are well off.  They average about two to three thousand dollars a year.  That means for the most part we could have boutique practices for these people if we didn't waste so much money.  Think about what I'm talking about here, and that's why I'm talking about a revamping of the system, but it is imperative that the Republicans embrace a simple, effective system that puts people and their health care providers in charge the health care, and that in turn brings the health care system into the free market system--that's what controls price and that's what controls quality.

We do not need the government controlling our health care, and that's why, that's why I have been such a vehement opposer of Obamacare.  Even if it worked I would oppose it.  It doesn't.  But even if it did I would oppose it.  Why would I oppose it?  Because I don't believe in taking the most important thing a person has which is their health, their health care, and putting it in the hands of the government because if they have control of the most important thing you have, it's not long before they have control of your whole life and that fundamentally changes America, and we don't want that.
And I'm a big believer in waste not, want not.  You know I remember my, my mother, you know she worked two, three jobs at a time, extremely hard, because she didn't want to be on welfare. And she only had a third grade education but she noticed that most people who went on welfare never came off it so she just didn't want to go on it in the first place.  So she struggled; she worked hard.  Occasionally she accepted some assistance, but for the most part was able to stay off of it because she was creative.  
She would go to the Good Will and buy a pair of pants that had a big hole in the knees--and this was back when that wasn't fashionable--and buy a couple of patches and put them on there, and people would be saying where'd you get those jeans?  And you know she would go out, take us to the country on a Sunday, and knock on a farmer's door, can we pick four bushels of your apples, corn, beans, three for you and one for us.  They always like that deal.  She would bring that?it home, can them.  
She really could stretch money--she understood the value of money--and in fact I'm certain that if my mother were the Secretary of the Treasury we would not be in a deficit situation right now.
But a big part of our problem right now is that the government is just too big and they're wasteful, and they don't care what they do with our money.  I remember once I was doing a consulting job for the government some years back and and in terms of my fee they said charge anything you want, anything you want.  Doesn't matter.  I imagine this goes on all the time and it's problematic.  
You know, you can go back to 2010 and you take income and everybody who makes $69,000 and above--the middle class and above, $5.1 trillion.  A lot of money.  The federal budget that year, $3.5 trillion.  Sixty-percent of everything the middle class and above makes just to run the federal government.

Who thinks that's fair?  I don't see a single hand.  That is absolutely absurd.  It means the government is much too big.  There's one well-known politician who said you can't cut one penny or it'll be a disaster.  Anybody know who that was?  Yeah, Nancy Pelosi.  Why I mean.  That's crazy.  
So my suggestion is that we cut down on the size of government by attrition.  You know thousands of government employees retire every year.  Don't replace them.  You do that for about four or five years and all the sudden you've got the government down to a reasonable size and people have real jobs.  They're not stumbling over each other doing the same thing.  Then they don't have time to stick their big noses in everybody's business.  You know.  
And then this this this national debt, $18 trillion and rising, rising at a rate of $500 million a day.  Think about that.  That's ridiculous.  It is compromising the quality of life for everybody who comes after us, and that's what I'm concerned about.

My whole career has been spent trying to preserve life, trying to enhance life of children, and now here I was ready to retire, sit back and relax and enjoy life, and then I look out there and I see this monster called the national debt which is threatening the life and quality of those coming behind us.  That's why I can't sit down and watch that happen, and I hope none of us is able to sit down and watch that happen.

We are going to have to deal with it through economic development.  We grow our way out of it; we'll never cut our way out of it, but that does mean that we need to cut, cut down the size of the government, develop the federal government.  We need to use our natural resources.  God has blessed this country with enormous natural resources.  We're the number one producer of oil now on three-percent of the land.  What would happen if we open up the land?  The federal government has no business owning all this land.  This is crazy, you know. 

And all the natural gas we have, and now we have the ability to liquefy natural gas, which means we can export it.  And we have all these archaic energy exportation rules that date back to the seventies.  We need update those, and we used to use those energy resources not only to enhance our economic position, to pay down our debt, but also to put Putin back in his little box, you know.
But you know what my life has been surrounded, taking care of children and that drives a lot of what I do.  You know no one should ever be surprised to know that I am pro-life because if I spent so many hours trying to figure out how to save people's lives why would I be in favor of people obliterating people's lives?  Why would anybody be in favor of that?
And in closing I have to tell you, we today enjoy our freedom because there were those who preceded us who were brave.  They were not afraid.  We have to have courage once again in this country.  We cannot allow the progressives to shut us up through political correctness and through all the things that they do.  And if they want to act like third-graders and call us names, let them.
But the fact of the matter is we have a job to do and we need to realize that freedom is not free. You have to fight for freedom every single day.  And the next time you sing our National Anthem and you're looking at that flag and you get to the end of that first stanza and it says the land of the free and the home of the brave, please remember that it is impossible to be free if you're not brave.  Thank you and God Bless.
