When you dove in, was it to make, to deliver a message, or to win? Did you think you’d be in this position at this point in the campaign?
No, when we got into this race, our intention was to win. We thought we had a message that would resonate with the American people. My experience has been that the American people are sick and tired of seeing the middle class continue to decline. Over 47 million people living in poverty and almost all new income and wealth going to the top one percent. That was a message that I believed would resonate. If you’re asking me, did I believe it would resonate as quickly as it has? No, that I did not think. The fact that we’re drawing huge crowds all over this country — we’ll be in Boston on Saturday evening, Springfield, Mass. Saturday afternoon — the kinds of crowds we’re drawing, the kinds of small donations that are coming into the campaign, the kind of volunteer organizations that we’re putting together has gone a lot faster than I thought it would.
We wanna talk to you about what you want to do, Bernie Sanders, how you want to do it, and then Presidential politics. Big picture, what you wanna do, you’re talking about a political revolution and a very big agenda of changes. Big picture, what do you want to do?
Big picture is, we have got to end the grotesque level of income and wealth inequality in this country. We have got to create millions of decent paying jobs because real unemployment in this country, Tom, is not 5.1 percent, it’s over ten percent when you include those people who have given up looking for work, and those people who are working part time. Youth unemployment for African American kids is 51 percent. We have more people in jail than any other country. So yes, count me as a radical. I want to invest in jobs and education for our young people rather than jails and incarceration. In my view, the Citizens United Supreme Court decision is an affront to democracy in this country. It has got to be overturned. We have gotta move toward public funding of elections so that we end up having people running for office who are looking out for the best interests of their constituents, not hustling money for millionaires and billionaires. What Pope Francis just told us last week and what everybody who listens to scientists knows to be true — Climate change is a huge, huge global crisis. In my view, the United States has got to lead the world, working with China, Russia, India, other countries, transforming our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy. In a competitive global economy it is totally insane that hundreds of thousands of young people can not afford to go to college. We need public colleges and universities to be tuition free. Not a radical idea, actually, it existed in this country 50 of 60 years ago, it exists in a number of other countries around the world. And to pay for these programs, which are expensive, what we have finally got to say is that when the top one tenth of one percent of the people in this country own almost as much wealth as the bottom ninety percent. When 58% of all new income today goes to the top one percent, yes, the wealthy and profitable large corporations will have to start paying their fair share of taxes.
Senator Sanders, you call yourself a Democratic Socialists. Can you define that, and what does it mean in policy terms?
What it means, Tom, is that we have got to look at countries around the world — including many Democratic Socialist, or Labor governments, or Social Democratic countries — countries like Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Norway, and other countries — that have done some really extraordinary things for their working people and the middle class. Let me give you a few examples. Today, despite the gains of the Affordable Care Act, the United States remains the only major country on Earth that doesn’t guaranteed health care to all people as a right. We still have 29 million people uninsured and many more uninsured and we pay by far the highest cost per capita for health care than any other country. Why is that, Tom? Why are we the only major country that doesn’t guarantee health care for all? I live in Burlington, Vermont, 100 miles away form the Canadian border, they provide health care to all people. Another obvious example, the United States is the only major country on Earth that doesn’t guarantee paid family and medical leave. So there are women who are having babies today who do not have a lot of money who will be forced to go back to work a week from now, or two weeks from now, separate themselves from their newborn babies, because they need to go out to earn a living to take care of their family. Every other country on Earth, major country, says, you know what? When a women has a baby, dad has a baby, they should have some income to stay home to get to love their baby, know their baby, we are the only country that does not do that. We have the highest rate of child poverty of any major country on Earth. Is that really where we should be? We are the wealthiest country in the history of the world but the vast majority of the people don’t realize it, because they’re working for longer hours and low wages.
So Democratic Socialist means guaranteeing certain services?
Yeah, it does. It means learning from countries and saying, you know what, everybody should have health care as a right. Everybody regardless of the income of their family should be able to get the education that they need. Don’t tell some poor bright kid who wants to become a doctor or an engineer that he or she can’t do that because their family doesn’t have a lot of money. So what it means, in so many words Tom, is that instead of having a government, which we do today,which is significantly dominated by big money interests and large campaign donations, donors, we should have a government that represents ordinary Americans, middle class, working class Americans and guarantee the rights of people to live in dignity and security.
Yeah, it does. It means learning from countries and saying, you know what, everybody should have health care as a right. Everybody regardless of the income of their family should be able to get the education that they need. Don’t tell some poor bright kid who wants to become a doctor or an engineer that he or she can’t do that because their family doesn’t have a lot of money. So what it means, in so many words Tom, is that instead of having a government, which we do today,which is significantly dominated by big money interests and large campaign donations, donors, we should have a government that represents ordinary Americans, middle class, working class Americans and guarantee the rights of people to live in dignity and security.
What I said is, this is what I said. Growth just for the sake of growth does not necessarily mean anything for middle class and working families. Today, the median family income is about $4,000 less than it was in 1999. Fifty eight percent of all new income is going to to the top one percent. So you don’t want growth to make millionaires and billionaires wealthier. What you want is economic growth which benefits the working class and middle class of this country. What I believe, and as opposed to many of my Republican colleagues who think tax breaks to the rich and corporations will benefit everybody, that’s trickle down economics I think historically that has been shown to be false. I believe that if you put money into the hands of low income and working families, raising the minimum wage, creating jobs to deal with unemployment, they will then have the money to go out and spend and create other types of jobs. So I think our approach will substantially benefit the middle class and working families of this country.
For Democrats, why vote for you, Bernie Sanders, rather than, at this point, Hillary Clinton, let’s say?
Well, you know, I have known Hillary Clinton for 25 years and I have a great deal of respect for Hilary Clinton. I’m not gonna tell you we are bosom buddies, but you know we’re friends, we have known each other, we served in the Senate together. But I think people have to assess where we are this moment in the history of this country. And if you think establishment politics and establishment economics is the answer to our problems, fine, there are good candidates out there. But if you think it’s time for what I define as a political revolution, and that means involving millions and millions of people in the political process today in a way that has never been the case before, than I think I’m your candidate. And let me tell you why, Tom, this is not just rhetoric. What I have said over and over again and repeat to you now, is that no President, not Bernie Sanders, not Hillary Clinton, not anybody else, with the best intentions in the world can become President of the United States and effectively take on the incredible power of Wall Street, corporate America, the corporate, media, large campaign donors. No President can do that. The only way we transform America and make government work for all of our people is through what I call a political revolution and that means involving tens of millions of people in the political process.
Beyond the $15 an hour national minimum wage that you say you’d push for, Bernie Sanders, what about the waiters and servers out there?
He is absolutely right. I mean it is beyond disgraceful that you waiters and waitresses, people in the service industry, who are making almost no money at all. Well, sometimes, if you’re working in a good restaurant, my daughter used to work and she did very well. On the other hand, if you’re working in a diner and not a lot of people are coming in, you make zero tips on a bad day. So I think what we have to do is obviously substantially raise that minimum wage as well. Last point I would make in terms of David’s comment, and David, thanks very much for your support, is that one of the reasons I think we can win this election, in fact do very well, is that Democrats win when voter turnout is high, Republicans win when voter turnout is low. The American people are prepared to stand up and fight back and get involved in a campaign and I think that campaign is our campaign.
Beth asks you, she says overturning Citizens United is a focal point of your message, what specific steps will you take to implement this change, she asks on Facebook?
Well, two ways. Number one, what I’ve made very clear that no nominee of mine to the Supreme Court will get that nomination will have his or her name sent to the Senate unless they are very, very clear that they will in fact not only overturn Citizens United, but also make it one of the first orders of business that comes up, to rehear the case. Second of all, we have got to continue the hard work for a constitutional amendment. Fastest route is overturning it. Thirdly, we have got to move toward public funding of elections so that candidates in the future are just not dependent on big money interests.
You have mentioned and taken a position on the main issues of the day, but what makes you think you can get any support from  Congress? What are you doing to get support from Congress or a Congressional candidate to do something more than Obama’s doing? It seems to be a stalemate, won’t you be in the same position?
Well Richard, that’s a very fair question. Let me respond this way: I am not naive. On one hand, I have worked over the years on a number of important pieces of legislation with Republicans. In the last session of Congress, I helped this chairman of the Veterans’ committee pass one of the more important pieces of legislation, working with people like John McCain in the Senate, Jeff Miller, Republican Chairman in the House. SO I do know how to work with Republicans. But here’s the more important point. The more important point is that right now, you’re having a United States Congress that to a very significant degree is controlled by big money interests. And Richard is right that in that much of the legislation that I would be bringing forth would be opposed by Republicans.
Senator, when will you declare your intentions for 2016 regardless of what they are? 
Well that's a good question. And let me saythis. What I have believed-- The reason that I have been thinking about running for 12 President, you’ll have to trust me, I'm sitting here next to my wife who is less than enthusiastic about this idea, [laughter] is not because I wake up in the morning and say, “Boy, I really have this burning desire to be President of the United States.” I am as proud as I can possibly be to be representing the great State of Vermont. And I have reached a higher level of political achievement I ever dreamed to be possible. But the reason I am thinking about running for President is that, at a time when the middle class of this country is disappearing, and so many people are giving up on the political process-- Last election 63 percent of the people didn’t even bother to vote. So I think we need an agenda. We need candidates who are going to stand up for the working class of this country, for working families. And you know, so that’s what I'm thinking to do. Now it ain’t an easy task. You know, it’s easy to give a speech. But, when you're taking on the Koch brothers, and you're taking on the billionaires, you're taking on Wall Street and the insurance companies and the drug companies and the military industrial complex, that’s not easy stuff. [laughter] Not easy stuff. And I don’t want to do this thing unless I can do it well. Can we put together the political movement of millions of people who are prepared to work on taking on the billionaire class? And that’s what I'm trying to find out. You know, that’s not-- I go around the country, and there's a lot of support for these ideas, more than I think inside the Beltway pundits understand. But can you convert that into grassroots organizations? How do you raise money? I was thinking, the other day. I really was. I woke up, and I said, “Wow. If I were really, really successful, and did something unprecedented, and I had three million people contribute $100 dollars each”-- And, by the way, in my election campaigns, I think the average contribution is $45 dollars. Not a lot of money here in Washington, D.C. And I don’t do these fundraisers for $100,000 dollars apiece or $10,000. I don’t know anybody who has that kind of money, all right. [laughter] But I was thinking, if I was really enormously successful, and I had three million people contributing a hundred dollars each, three million people, that would be $300 million dollars, an enormous sum of money, one-third of what the Koch brothers themselves are going to spend. So those are the issues that I'm trying to work on right now. 
So you're an Independent. You caucus with the Democrats. If you ran, would you run as a Democrat? Or would you run as an Independent?
Great question. It’s also one of the things on my mind. I'm getting bolder and bolder and grayer and grayer. So I'm trying to think through all these issues. Here is the story on that one. If you go out among the American people, and you say, “Do you have a lot of confidence in the Democratic party or the Republican party?” what they’ll tell you is the Republican party has moved from a moderate centrist part to a right wing extremist party. Way out of touch. Democratic party, once the party of the American working class, nobody-- or very few people perceive it to be the case anymore. And people, more and more people, all over this country, are looking for alternatives to the two-party system. So that’s one of the reasons why one might run as an Independent. What's the negative? As you all know, it is awfully hard to run as an Independent infrastructure? How, outside of the two-party system, how do you get invited to debates? In all due respect to the media, is the media going to follow somebody who is running as an Independent? Not debating. In some cases, it’s literally impossible to get on the ballot as a third party candidate. So those are the issues that we are also trying to work through.
What makes you an Independent, given that you always do caucus with the Democrats in the Senate? And with the Republican Senate, aren't you forced to vote with the Democrats anyway, so the Republicans can't get their agenda passed? So I guess the questioner is saying, what really makes you an Independent? Aren't you really a Democrat?
No. As I started in my discussion, my first victory was defeating a five-term Democrat. And I've defeated Democrats and Republicans for many, many years. This is what I think. I think we have a political system right now, which I mentioned earlier, I think the Republican party has become extremely right wing. This is not the party of the Dwight David Eisenhower. And there's no way, obviously, I would caucus with them. I think within the Democratic party, you have some great people. You have some really, really good people who often don’t get the credit they deserve. I mentioned the Progressive Caucus in the House. Many progressives or some progressives in the Senate working night and day for working families. So to me, given, you know, as a member of the U.S. Senate, there are two caucuses, the Democrats and the Republicans. So there's not much question about which caucus I would be in. And I want to thank Harry Reid and the Democratic leadership in the Senate for treating me very fairly and very, very decently. But you know, to my mind, there's no question but the Democrats are far preferable to the Republicans on the issues that I am concerned with. 
If you ran and if you were elected, how would you work with Congress? There seems to be a gridlock between the White House and Congress now. Would that be the same case if you were in the White House? 
The issue, in my view, the reason that Congress is dysfunctional is not because of the so-called gridlock that exists. You know, it’s not that every member of Congress has a personality defect and is unable to communicate with people in another political party. Or the people end up hating everybody around. It’s just not the case.  This is what is the case. The case is, right now, that the United States Congress is not representative of where the American people are. They are way out of touch. The American people say, “Raise the minimum wage.” The United States Congress says, “Give tax breaks to billionaires.” [laughter] That’s true. The American people say, “We have to move towards sustainable and clean energy and energy efficiency.” The United States Congress says, “Build the Keystone Pipeline.” And on and on. So the issue, you asked me the question, and that is a very important question. I happen to have a lot of respect and personal affection for Barack Obama. I think history will judge him in a like-kind way that his contemporaries have. [applause] And I think that, as a politician, he has won campaigns that will also make the history book, especially his first one. But if you were to ask me-- and I think I have told him this, so I'm not telling you any secrets-- what his major mistake has been, is that he thought that, after putting together this extraordinary grassroots movement of young people, minorities, working class people, putting together that coalition, and getting elected to the Presidency, and then he thought he could sit down with Republicans and negotiate all of these fine agreements, he was mistaken. The only way that any President in this day and age, taking on the billionaire class can succeed, the only possible way is to mobilize tens of millions of people to say to Congress, “Guess what. This is what you are doing. You are going to raise the minimum wage. You are going to create millions of jobs. You are going to protect our veterans and our seniors. You're not going to give tax breaks to the rich. You are going to make college affordable. And we are watching you. And if you don’t vote for this legislation, you're not going to return to office.” What I will say, with 100 percent certainty, that if we continue to have elections in which 63 percent of the people don’t vote, 80 percent of young people don’t vote, then the rich will only get richer, and will continue to dominate what goes on here in Washington. So to answer your question, any serious President that wants to represent working families has to mobilize people all over this country to make the Congress an offer they can't refuse.
How will your decision on running for President be affected by what others do? For instance, Secretary Clinton, if she gets in the race, and depending on what she does or says, if she goes to Wall Street and comes out very strong against Wall Street, for instance, or if a Senator Warren or somebody like that got in, would that affect your decision to get in or get out?
No, I would not be running-- You know, I do politics. And the people in Vermont understand this. I know the rest of the country does it a little bit differently than other people do. You're looking at somebody who’s run in many, many elections. In the House for 16 years, eight elections, in the Senate twice. Lost some elections. Do you know how many negative ads I've run during all those years? Not one. Never ran a negative ad. So I don’t run against people. It’s not my desire to trash people. Hillary Clinton is a remarkable woman with an extraordinary history of public service. Would it not be my job to run against them, it would be my job, if she ran and if I ran, to debate the serious issues facing our country, as intelligent people should be doing in a democracy. And let me say this. Again, this is how I always get myself in trouble. And I'm getting my wife nervous already. But we can't have that serious debate if the mediadoesn’t allow it. So I would urge my media friends that, instead of political gossip, let us talk about the real issues and respect different points of view. But when 63 percent of the people in a poll last year didn’t know which political parties controlled the House and the Senate, something is wrong with political consciousness in this country. So what we need is civil intelligent debates on the real issues facing the American people. Not more political gossip of who’s winning today and who’s losing, who slipped on a banana peel, who said something particularly stupid. I'm sure I did today. It’ll be-- you know. But let it be. How do we rebuild a crumbling middle class? How do we lead the world in transforming our energy system so we can save the planet from climate change? How do we do with a grotesque level? How do we deal with the grotesque level of income and wealth inequality? Not easy stuff. How do we do it? Those are the issues that serious people should be talking about.
I had read that you were frustrated about the number of times you were asked about Secretary Clinton’s emails. And I'm wondering if you view that as just a total tempest in a teapot? Or is there some real transparency issues about how government operates at the core of this, that people like yourself should talk about?
Well, the frustration is, that in all the years I've been in Congress-- it’s true-- not one person in the media came up to me and said, “Bernie, we have the highest rate of childhood poverty in the industrialized world. What are you going to do about it?” “Bernie, we have 11 percent of our people unemployed today. How are you going to put those people back to work?” “Bernie, are you worried that so few people have so much political power? What are you going to do about that?” Those are questions I don’t hear very much about. So in terms-- I don’t know a whole lot about it. I know what you know, what you read in the newspapers about the emails. I really don’t know what the rules are in terms of the Department of State. But frankly, from the calls I just mentioned, ask my person at the front desk, “How many calls are we getting on Hillary’s emails?” You know what the was in Washington, D.C.? Zero. Not one of the major issues facing me. 
How would you handle the Federal Reserve as President? And what do you think about the push by the Republicans to have the Fed audited? 
A good, important issue. When I was involved in Dodd-Frank, a major piece of financial legislation, we managed to get an amendment, for the first time in the history of the United States, passed, that didn’t audit the Fed in its entirety, but did audit the Fed during the financial crisis. And boy, did we learn a lot. And Bloomberg, by the way, was active in that effort as well. I think they brought forth a lawsuit. But what we found out is that, during the financial crisis, $16 trillion dollars in zero or low interest loans was lent out to virtually every financial institution, major financial institution, in the United States and central banks all over the world, $16 trillion dollars zero or low interest loans in a revolving loan fund. And yet, working families today have to figure out how they're going to pay seven or eight percent interest rates for their kids to go to college. So maybe we should practice low interest loans for working families and not just greedy financial institutions. In terms of auditing the Fed, that is legislation that I was on. Here is an example of strange bedfellows coming together. Ron Paul and I worked together on that legislation, of which we managed to pass some of it in the bill. So the idea of auditing the Fed does make sense to me. 
Several questions about war and defense. And we’re running short of time, so I’ll try to combine a few of them. And you can jump in. You have opposed the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. If you were President, how would you have responded to the attacks of September 11th, 2001? That’s one question. And another questioner notes that you are a big advocate of cutting defense spending, yet this person also believes you're a supporter of the F-35 program, which has come under a lot of criticism as being wasteful. So how do you reconcile that? So F-35 and September 11th. 
First of all, I voted for the war in Afghanistan, whether history will recall that as the right vote or not, I don’t know. But I did. And the reason I did is, obviously, we knew-- or at least had a pretty good idea who led the attack on 9/11, Osama bin Laden. He was being harbored in Afghanistan. They refused to give him up. And I supported our troops going in there. I did not know, then, that that war would go on and on and on. That I didn’t know. I strongly opposed the war in Iraq, and I think history will recall that as the right vote. Now how you deal with ISIS is a difficult issue. None of these issues are simple. And anyone who jumps up and thinks they have the magical solution is usually very, very wrong. But this is what my fear is. We have been in war in Iraq and Afghanistan for over a decade. The cost of that war in human life and suffering and financially has been very, very heavy. I strongly, strongly feel that some of my colleagues are hell-bent in getting us  17 involved in never-ending wars in the quagmire of the Middle East. And I will do my best to oppose that. Now right now, what you have is a situation where, as an example, Saudi Arabia, some of you may know, is a country controlled by a multibillion dollar family, one of the wealthiest families in the world. Turns out that Saudi Arabia has the fourth largest military budget in the world. They have a large military budget. Now why in God’s name is the United States contemplating sending combat troops into Iraq again, when you got the Saudis sitting there watching us do that? I think what you have now in the Middle East is, in fact, a war for the soul of Islam. What will Islam be? Will it be the peaceful religion that many believe it to be? Or will it be an ISIS form? And I think it is absolutely incumbent for Saudi Arabia, for Qatar, for Kuwait, for Jordan, for the countries in that region to get actively involved in that effort against ISIS. I think the United States and Western Europe should be supportive of their effort. But I do not believe that the United States should lead that effort. 
Last question. Ben and Jerry periodically retires its flavors. As a powerful political personage, what flavor would you use your considerable clout to save if it ever got put on the chopping block?
Well Ben and Jerry are good friends. And Jerry stopped eating a lot of that ice cream, he’s a lot-- Ben has stopped eating a lot of that ice cream, he’s a lot skinnier now than he used to be. There is a-- Well, I like them all. I got to confess that. But I'm old fashioned. And chocolate does just fine with me. 